An Analysis of the Beauty Myth

Why do women\'s products cost so much more than men\'s? On average women
pay more than men 42% of the time for the exact same products. Looking
at razors, for example, the exact same plastic one-blade cheap razors
are packaged in both blue and pink. Even though the only difference in
the product is color, the pink razors cost more than the blue. What is
it about women\'s products that makes them cost more? Why do women end
up paying about 1,300 dollars more a year in extra costs than men do?

People have been so focused on the pay gap that they don\'t see that
even if men and women are getting paid almost the same, women still pay
significantly more than men for everyday products. Clothing, hygiene,
toys, and health care are just some categories women are subjected to
paying more. Women are expected to uphold a certain appearance to
appease men but in order to do that they must spend most of their
already unequal pay. Women are expected to work harder than men just to
be seen as equal and competent but no matter what they will be oppressed
due to the unrealistic beauty standards and overpriced costs that come
with being a woman.

It is very uncommon today to meet a girl that doesn\'t wear makeup or
have a skincare routine or does some kind of beauty routine. It is so
expected for all girls and women to look and dress a certain way to be
liked and fit in. Many times in order to achieve these unrealistic goals
it takes a significant amount of money. It is a common

joke among girls that if you get a gift card to Ulta or Sephora you are
only going to be able to get one or two products. This is because
women\'s products are marketed at a much higher cost than their male
counterparts. Products every woman is pressured to buy or even has to
buy for their health cost more simply due to the fact that they are made
for women. Even using cheaper end products it can still cost over 50
dollars just to buy hygiene products like shampoos, conditioners, and
body washes. This price discrimination all boils back down to a concept
called the beauty myth.

When the United States was going through the second wave feminist
movement and women were gaining more power and rights in the world men
needed a new way to gain their power back. In comes the beauty myth. A
term coined by Naomi Wolf the beauty myth is "a social construct that
uses images of female beauty as a political weapon to combat female
advancement". Even though women had entered the workforce they were not
taken seriously and were only judged based on their appearance. Over
time these expectations were reinforced by society until it was so
ingrained people didn\'t question them anymore. Women were viewed as
weak and just objects to be used by men. When the news wave of feminism
movements were starting in the US women were objecting to their unequal
pay and the unfair standards that had been set for them. While women
have made progress in decreasing the pay gap and gaining more respect in
the workforce, there has not been a proper acknowledgment of the unequal
cost of female products in the market.

No matter how hard women push back at the beauty standards that are
perpetuated on them by men it is impossible to escape until men and
women become equal as consumers in the market. Women are forced to
compete with each other to be

the most attractive when they should be coming together and working for
a more equal part in the market. The increased prices of female products
only add to the competition enforced upon women. There becomes a
hierarchy in products and the girls that can afford it become "it" girls
while the ones that can\'t are left trying to meet those standards. As
time develops society keeps reinforcing new ways to keep women from
advancing as much as they could.

In Charlotte Perkins Gilman's "The Yellow Wallpaper" she reflects upon
her anger towards the wallpaper in her bedroom because to her it
represents the oppression she feels from her husband. Gilman helped push
the first wave of feminism because she helped create the language for
women to understand their oppression. Women couldn\'t stand up for
themselves because they didn\'t know what was happening to them, they
were told they were ill and sick. In order for women to make any
advancements they have to acknowledge what is holding them back. Gilman
helped women understand that they were not ill or melancholy they were
simply being held back by the power their husbands had over them. Women
have always been held back by society and unless they understand how the
harmful standards the beauty myth enforces effects them they cannot make
any changes against it.

We are in a new age now where women do not understand how the beauty
myth is oppressing them. Women, myself included are too busy playing
into the stereotypes and competitions to meet the beauty standard men
expect from us. In order to overcome the beauty myth we need to once
again create a new language for women to understand how this myth is
bringing them down. There has been a start but it is a much more
difficult process in today\'s society where everything is connected and
the

world has become much more complex in its technology and the number of
people that can be reached.

Women are able to see the inequality they are faced with but they don\'t
see how deep the difference between men and women is. In order to reject
the beauty myth one must understand exactly how they play into it. From
how they interact with the workforce in reference to gaining respect,
equal treatment, and pay; but also how they interact with the consumer
market. Women need to begin advocating for more equal treatment as
consumers. There is no reason that the exact same product should cost
more on the sole fact that it is marketed to females. Product marketing
and cost should not change based on gender. As a society, we need to
point out these price discriminations so that women can start to find
their voices again and reject the beauty myth completely.

All throughout history women have been unable to see the power that men
had over them until they were able to create a new language to
understand it. As women started moving out of the household men started
creating unrealistic standards of beauty that kept women in competition
with each other rather than continuing to advocate for more fair and
equal treatment. We are now in a new wave of feminism where women need
to create a new language to truly understand how the beauty myth is
holding women down to be able to fully reject it. Women need to
acknowledge the discrimination they face in the market and reject buying
and spending more on products that are no different than men's. This is
the only way to be able to effectively work to undo the stereotypes that
have been reinforced by society for decades.
