Beauty Standards

We've all scrolled through social media. Most young women spend multiple
hours a day immersed in the alternate reality the algorithm has created
for consumers. This algorithm particularly preys and capitalizes on fear
and insecurity. Have you ever scrolled through social media, only to
find yourself feeling less than perfect in comparison to the flawless
images on display? This feeling, driven by the endless stream of
seemingly flawless photos, has become a common problem in today\'s
society. This paper aims to show how the idea of \"The Beauty Myth,\" as
explained by Naomi Wolf, can offer a sociological perspective to better
understand and make sense of the unattainable beauty standards promoted
by social media platforms.

In my life and the lives of others, I have noticed the harmful effects
of social media on self-confidence and body image. From friends sharing
their insecurities to countless posts advocating unrealistic beauty
ideals, the pressure to be perfect is evident. The widespread presence
of these images and their impact on people\'s self-worth presents a
puzzle that can be examined through the lens of Wolf\'s \"The Beauty
Myth.\"

One day, while studying in Randall with my best friend, we decided to
take a break and catch up on each other\'s lives. As we were talking,
she pulled out her phone to check her social media. She was scrolling
through Instagram when I noticed her expression change, and a sadness
washed over her. I asked her what was wrong, but she just shrugged it
off, saying it was nothing. I couldn\'t help but notice that my friend
became quieter and more withdrawn after that moment. I knew she had
encountered something on social media that had affected her. Finally,
after a bit of gentle prodding, she admitted that she had seen photos of
influencers promoting an unattainable body image. The images made her
feel insecure about her own appearance and fueled her self-doubt.

It's really profound how immediate and deep an impact a screen can
affect a human being. Something that is so obviously fake, can influence
our emotions on a serious level. These algorithms are specifically
designed to make you feel a certain way. To garner your attention, and
there is no intention within it that is good. On a moral level, there is
no reality where this predation is acceptable.

This instance highlighted how the unrealistic beauty standards
perpetuated by social media, as described by Naomi Wolf\'s \"The Beauty
Myth,\" could have immediate and profound effects on individuals like
Sarah. Her self-confidence was shaken, and she began questioning her
self-worth, wondering if she wasn\'t attractive enough to be valued by
society.

Naomi Wolf\'s idea of \"The Beauty Myth\" suggests that society\'s
beauty standards are an oppressive force, maintained to keep women under
control. According to Wolf, these standards are impossible to achieve
and always changing, making sure women continuously strive for an ideal
they can never truly reach. To better understand this concept, think
about the fashion industry\'s promotion of extremely thin models as the
ultimate beauty standard in the 1990s. This ideal was then replaced by a
more athletic and toned appearance in the 2000s, leaving women trying to
adapt to the new standard.

Using Wolf\'s concept of \"The Beauty Myth,\" we can now analyze the
effects of social media on beauty standards and self-esteem. The
constant flood of images on social media platforms, often digitally
edited or filtered, strengthens the idea that perfection is achievable.
This false belief increases the pressure to fit into these unrealistic
standards, leaving people feeling not good enough and always chasing an
unattainable goal. Moreover, social media algorithms often keep this
cycle going by promoting content that aligns with these beauty ideals,
reinforcing the myth\'s power.

Through the lens of \"The Beauty Myth,\" we can also understand how
beauty has become a product on social media. Influencers and celebrities
often take advantage of this myth by promoting beauty products and
treatments that promise to help people achieve the \"perfect\" look.
This commercialization of beauty creates a culture of consumption that
makes money from people\'s insecurities, further embedding the power of
the beauty myth in society.

Additionally, the beauty myth perpetuates harmful gender stereotypes
that are detrimental to both women and men. For women, it reinforces the
idea that their worth is primarily based on their physical appearance,
while for men, it promotes toxic masculinity and the notion that they
must adhere to specific body types and appearances. The perpetuation of
these stereotypes on social media platforms contributes to a culture
that values conformity over individuality and exacerbates the harmful
impact of the beauty myth.

By understanding the role that social media plays in maintaining and
promoting the beauty myth, we can raise awareness of the issue and
encourage individuals to critically evaluate the images and messages
they consume. Creating open conversations about the unrealistic
standards perpetuated by the media can help empower individuals to
challenge these ideals and promote a more inclusive and diverse
representation of beauty.

Naomi Wolf\'s idea of \"The Beauty Myth\" offers valuable insights into
the puzzle of unattainable beauty standards pushed by social media
platforms. By understanding how these standards are oppressive and
ever-changing, we can start to see the negative effects they have on
people\'s self-esteem and mental well-being. Furthermore, recognizing
the commercialization and consumer culture surrounding beauty on social
media allows us to question the systems that profit from our
insecurities.

The importance of this analysis goes beyond the world of social media,
as the beauty myth is deeply rooted in society as a whole. By critically
examining and questioning these standards, we can start to break down
the oppressive structures that perpetuate them and work towards a more
inclusive and empowering definition of beauty. In doing so, we can
ultimately create a more just society that celebrates and values
diversity in all its forms.

One potential way to challenge the beauty myth is through the promotion
of body positivity and self-love. Encouraging individuals to embrace
their unique appearances and focus on their personal strengths can help
counteract the negative effects of unrealistic beauty standards. By
sharing diverse images and stories on social media platforms, we can
create a more inclusive online environment that reflects the true
variety of human beauty.

Moreover, educating young people about the harmful effects of the beauty
myth and the manipulation of images on social media can help build
resilience against the pressure to conform to unrealistic standards.
Providing tools for critical thinking and media literacy can empower
individuals to navigate the digital landscape with a more discerning eye
and a greater understanding of the constructed nature of beauty ideals.

Lastly, advocating for greater transparency and responsibility from
social media platforms and the advertising industry can help mitigate
the harmful impact of the beauty myth. By holding these entities
accountable for the content they promote, we can push for a more ethical
and inclusive representation of beauty that reflects the diversity of
our society.

In summary, applying Naomi Wolf\'s concept of \"The Beauty Myth\" to
social media allows us to better understand the pressure of unrealistic
beauty standards and their impact on individuals\' self-esteem and
mental health. By acknowledging the oppressive nature of these standards
and the role of social media in perpetuating them, we can work towards
dismantling the structures that support the beauty myth and create a
more inclusive and diverse understanding of beauty. By doing so, we can
foster a more equitable society that values and celebrates the
uniqueness of every individual.
