7879

Reflection Essay

Real men don't wear nail polish. This is a statement often said by
traditionalists and even some who claim to be progressive. The societal
structures put in place have created rigid gender stereotypes and
expectations for the entire population to conform to. In reality, gender
is not a binary logic and it's not easily defined into two categories.
Children are taught at a young age about what is masculine and what is
feminine and that they should lay claim to one depending on how they
were born. In reality, most people are not comfortable accepting that
men can be feminine and women can be masculine because of how we've been
conditioned.

As a man who wears nail polish I have received many compliments and also
criticisms along with brash assumptions being made about me. This social
anomaly has posed new social problems for me when moving to college and
engaging with people that I\'ve never met before. In one specific
instance, a close female friend that I had in the first semester
revealed to me that she thought that I was gay until I started dating my
girlfriend. Considering that this was someone I considered a close
friend, I was shocked to hear that she made that assumption about me.
This friend also made numerous comments about me wearing nail polish and
would refer to me in a demeaning manner as a "Fashionista".

I've also encountered people passing judgments on me because of the fact
that I wear nail polish since I've moved to UNCW. Most people see it as
something that only women and gay men do because it's "too feminine" and
"soft". Many of my male friends have a hard time believing that I was a
captain of my varsity Soccer and Basketball teams in high school because
I'm seen as feminine and not athletic. However, this is not to say that
some people do understand that painting my nails can be a form of self
expression and creativity and by proclaiming that nail polish is only
available to women can be a very harmful idea. I\'ve found that in a
heteronormative and hegemonically masculine environment, being a man and
painting your nails leads to symbolic violence from your peers. When
women engage in what is thought to be traditionally masculine activities
like being highly competitive in sports or being the breadwinner of the
house it contradicts the idea of "Doing Gender".

West and Zimmerman present "Doing Gender" as a concept for how we are
conditioned to conform to traditional gender roles in our
heteronormative society. Essentially, we are taught what is okay and
what is not okay for our assigned sex to do in order to be an effective
member of our society. We are taught that certain genders are expected
to do certain roles and gender is merely a social construct. West and
Zimmerman argue that humans are not born performing their gender but
that it's taught through social experience and parental influences. We
use "Doing Gender" as a way to easily recognize and organize ourselves
in today's society. One's sex category and external identifiers
determine the social expectations for their gender which ultimately
create the act of "Doing Gender" according to West and Zimmerman.\
Hegemonic Masculinity is a sociological concept that covers the idea
that men are to act as the dominant gender in society in order for their
role to be legitimized. The widespread ideas that men are to be tough,
aggressive, and competitive are what support Hegemonic Masculinity.
Hegemonic Masculinity supports that men should be the logical and
independent gender while women are the dependent beings. "Feminine"
traits such as painting your nails or being emotional are seen as weak
if a man engages in them under hegemonic masculinity. While the practice
of hegemonic masculinity attempts to benefit men in our society it ends
up doing quite the opposite. Men who force themselves into these roles
suffer from internalized mental health issues and the encouragement of
this practice leads to an increase of sexual violence.

The subordination and objectification of women is also a factor of
hegemonic masculinity that should be recognized. By placing men as the
dominant gender, this concept of hegemonic masculinity effectively
places women as the subordinate. Women are oftentimes seen as places for
emotional support by men who support hegemonic masculinity. This idea
also supports the "women as trophies" outlook that some men hold. This
explains why painting your nails and caring about your appearance can be
seen as trying to appeal to the dominant and ultimately being weak.

When applying the concept of "Doing Gender" to my experience of being
seen as homosexual or unathletic for painting my nails, the situation
becomes easily understandable. Since we are taught from a very young age
on how to "Do Gender" we are conditioned to look for certain traits to
help us legitimize and identify other's roles in our society. My friend
on campus, even being as progressive as she is, could not accept that
painting my nails is a form of creativity and self expression. Instead
she interprets my decision as an expression of femininity because that's
what "Doing Gender" has taught her to do. She associates certain traits
to certain genders and sexualities so her system of identifying is
essentially disrupted when a straight male paints their fingernails. The
conditioning of "Doing Gender" can be combined with the ideas of
Hegemonic Masculinity in order to see feminine traits as weaker traits.

Hegemonic Masculinity when applied to my situation, explains why some
see me as unathletic and soft. This idea of masculinity influences my
male friend's decisions when they make the assumption that since I'm not
a domineering male, I'm essentially weak and unathletic. The mix of
hegemonic masculinity and doing gender can help reveal how the two are
related through the lens of my own experience. The act of painting my
nails leads others to believe that I am "doing the gender" of a female
which brings about the assumption that since I am engaging in what is
seen as "feminine" qualities that I am weaker and less athletic
according to hegemonic masculinity.

The concepts of hegemonic masculinity and doing gender can be used to
dissect and help explain the reactions that different people have to a
male painting his fingernails. I have come to reveal that the action of
a straight male painting his fingernails creates a contradiction that
isn't easily digested when looking through the lens of "Doing Gender".
Additionally, The feminine act of wearing nail polish in the minds of
hegemonic males creates the perception that it's a sign of weakness and
fragility. These ideals are not applicable to every single person in our
society of course but they do help form most social contexts in the
United States. We have to change how we think of gender, sexuality, and
traditional roles as a society in order to make strides against these
constructs. Educating others and creating a diverse community in which
others can be provided with perspective and understanding is an
important first step. These are not problems that can be solved
overnight but social change is ignited through institutions and also
social experience so shifting the narratives of your own community can
help immensely.
