'Country Club Classism'

Class is everywhere in the world. It is in your family, in your
workplace, and even in your favorite restaurant.Class is where you work,
where you live, what type of food you eat, and even what time of family
you have. **Class is especially perpetuated by Country Clubs by
supporting classism.** Everyone in our society is grouped into four
different classes; Lower class, Middle class, Working class, and Upper
class (Although the working class is usually included in the middle
class section). Class is divided into four groups based on wealth and or
income.

The first time I had fully experienced class and saw the different
levels in society was when I first began my job at Landfall's Country
Club. I have worked in Landfall for almost a year now and I have learned
a lot about the upper middle and upper class. Landfall is primarily
occupied by the upper class as most homes cost an average of 1.5 million
dollars. These individuals have the opportunity for many things in their
own neighborhood as it includes a clubhouse with two restaurants on top
of ballrooms, another clubhouse that has an array of bars and luxury
rooms for big events such as weddings, and a sports center that sports
an Olympic size pool as well as many pickleball and tennis courts.

The difference in our society is further supported through country clubs
with their big white gates separating the richer individuals from the
rest of society. This large gated community has made it possible for the
Upper classes to limit their exposure to society and interact with only
those who have a similar socioeconomic status. This limited exposure has
caused a greater rift in our society and made the difference in class
much more prevalent. Within my time at the country club I have seen how
outsiders are treated and overheard many conversations from individuals
thinking they are above others purely due to the neighborhood in which
they live. These individuals talk about how they have more money and
expensive cars so that automatically makes them better than the people
who do not live in landfall. They also treat outsiders poorly, as I
clean the building there I am usually looked down upon because I clean
and don't live off of my parents like most of their kids do. Most
individuals there are very ungrateful for the workers and take advantage
of their status to put other individuals down so that they feel better
about themselves.

The Upper Class refers to individuals who are at the top of society\'s
hierarchy. They have the most wealth and have the lowest population in
society. The Upper class individuals tend to have the highest positions
in our society and make the most decisions about what happens within the
other classes. Overall, they tend to carry the most power with finances,
politics, as well as economics. The Middle Class also referred to an
included with the working class is located between the upper and lower
classes in society. y. The middle class usually consists of professional
people, farmers, skilled workers, and even government officials. The
middle class has some say so within the society and work hard to keep
most things afloat. Most middle class individuals are who keep the
businesses in our town going, as well as, allow you to go to school, get
groceries, and even go to the library. The Lower Class are the
individuals who are at the bottom of society. They are usually service
workers, manual laborers, and or unemployed. The Lower class in our
society are usually if not always confined to the class due to the
struggle in our society when it comes to saving enough money to get
yourself out of the lower class. Poverty affects the majority of the
Lower and Middle class in our society. With these individuals struggling
to take care of themselves and or their family it can be very hard to
move up.

Class is viewed as something important to most in our society. It can
influence what type of family you have, if you have children, and even
what job you will have in the future. Being placed in a specific social
class can further influence what type of school you attend which can
affect your level of education. There are many ways other individuals in
our society view and experience class. The lower classes view class as
something that holds them back in society and prevents them from getting
to their full potential. They view the Upper classes as privileged or
spoiled. While, the Upper classes view class as some sort of trophy to
show off and set them above others due to their class advantage. They
believe that the lower classes are inferior and less educated. Lastly
the Middle class, the Middle class tends to join the Upper class on
looking down on the Lower class, however they join in with the Lower
class when it comes to speaking out on classism.

Individuals in our society can affect how class is viewed by spreading
information on what class actually is and how they should be viewing it.
Class is something that is important to our society, however, it is not
something that should be used to group individuals together to influence
their entire future. Individuals should have the opportunity to be able
to get a good education and get a well paying job no matter their class.
To be able to spread this ideal, we first need to share the knowledge of
what class actually is and what it is used for. Individuals would need
to learn that class is not a trophy and or something that is here to
hold them back in life but is purely here to group together individuals
to see how well they are doing in society. However, we also need to
change how class is used currently in our society. The ideals that the
Upper class is better and will always be in the Upper class need to be
let go and the individuals need to be reminded that one class is not
better than the other and it should not be used to put and or hold
others down. Everyone in our society should have the same opportunities
in life, they deserve to get similar educations, be able to support
their families, and in the end just live a happy life.

Class status influences a lot of things in our society, from where you
work, where you go to school, to even what type of food you eat. Class
has a lot of influence over your future and tends to keep you confined
to whatever class your family is a part of. Class is not so evenly split
between the Upper, Middle, and Lower class, and whatever class you are a
part of can influence your entire future. The height of classism can be
seen in many things in society such as the existence of country clubs.
Country Clubs can be seen supporting classism through cutting off
individuals who are deemed 'too poor' to be a part of their club, and
cutting the richer people off from the rest of society. Overall, Country
Clubs support classism and aid in further separating the Upper class
from the Middle and Lower classes in our society.
