"Doing Gender" Outside of the Binary

Humans by nature are binary thinkers, we like having a box or category
to fall into; black or white, gay or straight, rich and poor, etc.
However, when the subject of gender identity comes up, the mold isn't
always so clear. Even the "strict" definitions of sex have some
flexibility, while it may seem obvious to have the binary categories of
male and female be applicable, where does that leave intersex people
with ambiguous genitalia? Furthermore, what does this strict binary mode
of thought mean for people who fall outside of the binary of the
categories of man or woman? Based off my lived experience as a
nonbinary-identifying individual, paired with my studying of
sociological writings about gender, I conclude that even in today's
progressive western society, it is nearly impossible to perform a gender
identity outside of the binary given the unspoken "rules" of how gender
is performed.

Despite always having a sense of confusion regarding my gender identity,
I don't believe I heard the term "nonbinary" until I was around fifteen
years old when the famous pop singers Sam Smith and Demi Lovato came out
as nonbinary to the public. Despite my young age and lack of knowledge
about the world, I still considered myself to be a fairly progressive
individual, but I knew that I really had no grasp on what this term
meant. All I knew was that some people had the preference to be referred
to by a set of gender-neutral pronouns and names, but I didn't
understand why, or how this worked. I couldn't figure it out at the
time, but the feelings I had about my gender were persistent, I felt too
masculine to fit into what I thought was the standard female mold, but I
didn't feel like I was anything close to being a man either. It wasn't
until I was eighteen and a freshman in college that the label of
"nonbinary" started to resonate with me, and at the time it made sense.
I didn't feel as though I could force myself into either category of
male or female, so identifying as something outside of these strict
categories felt the most comfortable and liberating for me. However,
these feelings were short-lived, as it didn't take long for me to start
realizing a troubling pattern was forming, and it caused me to question
the foundations of my beliefs about sex and gender.

When I first started identifying publicly as nonbinary at nineteen, I
assumed rather naively that the transition would be an easy one. I
informed my social circle of my new pronouns and changed nothing else
about myself. It was at this point that I started to realize just how
few people understood the label of nonbinary, the same way that I didn't
understand what it meant just a few years prior. I was never maliciously
misgendered by anyone, so I wasn't too hurt when people would still
refer to me as a woman, but deep down I started to feel a mounting
internal pressure to change aspects of myself to fit what I thought
would be the ideal image of androgyny, to be "successfully" nonbinary,
and I became obsessed with this concept. I started dressing more
masculine on purpose, even if it made me uncomfortable, shortened my
name to something I thought to be more gender-neutral, and I cut my hair
short. Much to my dismay this decision proved to be a counterintuitive
overcorrection, as people began to perceive my masculine gender display
to be congruous with male-identification. I backpedaled and regressed to
a more feminine fit; I dressed the same and kept my name, but I started
wearing more makeup and growing my hair out, and it had the opposite
effect. Once again people assumed that the more feminine display,
despite my attempts at keeping some aspects of androgyny, must have
meant I identified as a woman. I felt more than a little disheartened at
this, but I was truly more curious than offended. How were people not
perceiving me as a nonbinary individual? Was it a failing on my part, or
was society to blame? I turned to West and Zimmerman's article "Doing
Gender" for the answers for these questions and drew an interesting
conclusion.

Professors at the University of California Santa Cruz and Santa Barbara
respectively, Candace West and Don. H. Zimmerman co-wrote the article
"Doing Gender" to explain the sociological concept of the same name.
Essentially, the concept of "doing gender" consists of the daily social
interactions and behaviors that constitute one's gender expression.
While the original purpose of this article was to explain how the
process of performing gender is an ongoing accomplishment and it
generates "further means to create and maintain differences between
women and men," I feel this same concept can be applied to the puzzle of
performing genders outside of the binary and how the corresponding
gender displays are so frequently misconstrued (West & Zimmerman, 138).
According to their article, one's sex and gender identity are connected
in a way that is composed of three main parts. The first, sex, is made
up of the biological differences and is socially designated at birth.
The second part, sex category, is the theoretical bridge connecting sex
and gender; your sex category is the sex that you claim through external
identifiers such as clothing, hair, and makeup. The third and final
component is gender, which is comprised of the "routinely fashioned"
social expectations of how one should act according to their sex and sex
category (West & Zimmerman, 128). It is through the process of "Doing
Gender" that the behaviors one performs either align with their sex and
sex category, or clash and cause social confusion.

In my case, I believe West and Zimmerman would explain my dilemma as
having to do with the growing gap of differences between men and women
as well as the overcompensation that gender non-conforming people must
perform in order to convey a gender display that matches their sex
category. In the instance of their analysis of Garfinkel's study of the
transgender teenage girl Agnes, they found that Agnes claimed to be "120
percent female" with her having to study the other women in her social
circles in order to learn how to "pass," or have her gender display
match the sex category she was laying claim to (West & Zimmerman, 134).
In the example of my three displays, I was either "doing gender" too
much or too little on the masculine and feminine sides, which resulted
in other people misreading my displays. By cutting my hair short and
dressing differently, I was performing too masculine of a gender, but by
wearing makeup and having long hair I was performing the feminine
equivalent, which made it appear that the sex category I was laying
claim to matched my sex assigned at birth. However, it wasn't entirely
my fault that this happened, as another possible explanation comes from
West and Zimmerman's claim that the ongoing performance of gender and
its subsequent roles results in the creation of differences between men
and women. As these gaps between male and female gender continue to
grow, trying to perform a gender display outside these two categories
becomes increasingly difficult, as these perceived differences
perpetuate and validate the strict binary of gender, making it nearly
impossible to perform a gender outside of this binary without having it
misread by one's peers.

Based on my experiences with having my gender being mislabeled despite
my multiple attempts at displaying an androgynous gender identity, along
with West and Zimmerman's possible explanations that the sociological
concept of "doing gender" offered as to why this was happening, I can
derive from my experiences and readings that in a society where a strict
gender binary is enforced by the performance of gender roles and the
"gendering" of objects such as clothing, makeup, and haircuts; that it
isn't truly possible to perform a gender outside of the set parameters
of what defines a man or woman. It isn't in the nature of our collective
conscious to understand that a number of options could exist besides
strictly male and female. The only way I could see a reformation of this
strict viewpoint is through a collective effort in deconstructing the
binary by a conscious effort of our society to not reenact and further
perpetuate gender roles, opening the way for multiple identities to be
valid options of gender displays.

Works Cited

West, Candace & Don H. Zimmerman. "Doing Gender." *Gender & Society
1*(2). 1987. 125-151
