0062

Dr. Elliot

SOC 105- 008

May 1st, 2023

Eating Disorders and the Beauty Myth

As children grow older, they become more aware and self-conscious of
themselves and their bodies. Many times, this is a negative experience,
as children begin to compare themselves against their peers, models in
magazines, and modern beauty standards. This can be damaging to both
mental and physical health, as such comparisons can lead to the
development of eating disorders like anorexia, bulimia, and binge
eating. Despite being subjected to similar media and peer groups, eating
disorders disproportionately affect young women and girls as opposed to
young men and boys. (This is not to say that males are not affected by
eating disorders). This brings many to raise the following question: Why
do women, young women particularly, get diagnosed with eating disorders
so much more frequently than men? The answer to this question is based
on how society highly values the way that a woman looks, above all other
personal aspects, and does not hold men up to the same standard. Because
a woman's value is seemingly determined by her looks, a phenomenon known
as the beauty myth, eating disorders plague younger women and girls and
can cause severe mental and physical consequences.

In my personal experience, eating disorders are incredibly common in my
peers. I have distinct memories of sitting at the lunch table with
friends in my middle and high school years discussing how we could lose
weight, apply makeup, or utilize a number of other beauty treatments.
This was characterized by normal "girl talk", while boys in the seats
across the room were more concerned with whose soccer team they would be
on at recess than anything else. Even now as a college student, I
frequently witness similar interactions among my peers, specifically in
the swim team locker room. Before anyone that I knew was ever diagnosed
with an eating disorder, it was commonplace for us all to despise and
attempt to improve upon our naturally growing and changing bodies. This
age and time period are universally awkward for children as they go
through puberty and their body transitions into something new and
unknown. This is an incredibly vulnerable and developmentally important
time period and the diagnosis of an eating disorder prevents children
from maturing in a healthy way. With this being said, eating disorders
are also detrimental to the health of people past the age of puberty.
Eating disorders frequently prohibit those affected from getting the
nutrients that they need to maintain good health. Also related to this
is the concept of diet culture. Diet culture is the societal belief that
physical appearance is more important than physical and mental
well-being. This concept was widely accepted by my peers by the time I
entered middle school, and this culture enabled and continues to enable
the development of eating disorders in young women.

Around the time I turned eighteen, I was diagnosed with bulimia. Growing
up, I was always taller and lankier than my peers, and I always stuck
out in a crowd. I was incredibly self-conscious about this, so as I got
older and my body started to change, I wanted to do everything that I
could in an attempt to fit society's ideal beauty standard. Being tall
is typically considered to be unfeminine, and because I was very
involved as a competitive swimmer, I was also muscular with broad
shoulders, adding to my masculine traits. Many of my friends, and lots
of girls my age regularly made fun of me for this, causing me to do
everything in my power to prove my femininity and fit the male gaze in
other ways. Namely, I started experimenting with makeup, clothes, and
weight loss. During this time, I was a healthy weight for my gender and
age, but I found myself comparing my body type to the edited pictures of
models in bikinis in the media, as well as my more petite peers. Because
of this, I certainly felt the pressure to work to conform to society's
beauty standards. There were many factors that eventually led to my
bulimia diagnosis, all centered around conforming to society's beauty
standards, and this is something that I still struggle with even today,
despite knowing these expected standards of beauty are totally
unrealistic.

In order to further understand this, it seems pertinent to examine the
work of Namoi Wolf and the concept of the beauty myth. The beauty myth
is essentially the standard of the physical appearance of women, and the
idea that a woman's value is determined based on whether or not she
meets this standard. It is a sexist ideal that runs our society in an
attempt to control women's bodies and self-esteem. The phrase "it's a
man's world" is incredibly relevant here, as women are subjected to the
beauty myth because our culture is dominated by men's power and
institutions. This is seen in our daily lives, as the beauty myth is
perpetuated by social media, advertisements, and other platforms that
project unrealistic body expectations for women. The beauty myth is
determined by politics and is designed to keep male dominance intact.
Since men are trying to maintain dominance, women are forced into
society's standards in order to fight against each other for the
resources that men have appropriated for themselves. Additionally, we
see that as a woman's social power increases, so does the beauty
standard that she is expected to fulfill. Frequently, this pressure
prevents women from reaching their full potential and being the most
effective they can be. A different example of how the beauty myth is
seen in our society is plastic surgery. The practice of plastic surgery
has increased in relatively recent years, but specifically cosmetic
surgery is primarily performed on women. Women who undergo breast
augmentation, facial lifts, rhinoplasties, or a number of other
procedures do so even when it is not medically necessary, but instead,
fit society's definition of beauty. This myth is a travesty in and of
itself, but what makes it even worse is that there is no corollary myth
for men. While it is true that men strive to have good looks, they
simply do not face the same pressures women have to be attractive.
Conclusively, the beauty myth is a belief system studied by Wolf that
ensures male dominance stays intact in every aspect of society, but
actively diminishes the worth of women by judging them solely off of
appearance.

Overall, today's widespread problem of eating disorders, particularly in
young women and girls can be explained by the concept of the beauty
myth. Because women are only valued in society if they are beautiful in
the eyes of men, many women are pushed to attempt to achieve these
unattainable standards in extremely unhealthy ways. The idea of the
beauty myth is ingrained in the minds of women starting at a very young
age, meaning that these unhealthy coping mechanisms frequently develop
early, leaving girls with lifelong insecurities as well as worrying
mental and psychical health conditions, like eating disorders. It is
important to note that driving women to such lengths is simply a
sadistic control method to keep men in positions of power and to ensure
that women compete with each other instead of with men. It is despicable
that this misogynistic belief rules our society, and that young women
and girls are forced to suffer the consequences of male insecurity.
