Equality Within Businesses

Is there equality between races within businesses? Automatically, it is
thought that there is equality between races because all races now live
together in society, but in reality, true equality has not been
accomplished. Within society people create stereotypes of black people,
assuming they are bad based on the color of their skin. Instead of
getting to know a person and judging them based on their personality,
people often get judged by how they look. This is because in the past
black people were considered to be less than white people because of
their skin color and this idea has continued to be passed down even
though there is "equality" in today\'s world. Black people tend to have
to work a lot harder than white people to get a job and even when they
do it is common for them to be put in a position where they will not be
seen by the public and it is not necessarily a good job.

Within my small, predominantly white, hometown I have worked at two
different restaurants that are both very popular. The first restaurant
is on the water, which people would often go to after a boat day. At
this job, I worked as a hostess and a food runner. It was a very common
place for high schoolers to work and needed many different people as
servers, barbacks, and more. After I had applied, I told my friend, who
is black, to apply as well because he has a good work ethic and social
skills. When I told my boss about him, she said that they needed more
servers, and he would most definitely get the job. However, when he came
for his in-person interview, my boss told him that they did not have any
space for him, and he could not have the job. I had asked my boss why he
did not receive the job and she responded saying "he was not the right
person to be a server" which did not make a lot of sense considering he
had the skills for it. Later on in the year I had noticed that she went
on to give many people jobs as servers and hosts, but all of them were
white. However, back in the kitchen where customers were not able to go,
all of the chefs and dishwashers were black.

The second place where I started to work was a country club. I started
to notice the same trend of events, but worse. Within my first week
there, I realized that all the kitchen staff and people that worked in
the back were black. I was told by someone that had worked there longer
than me that black people had applied to be servers but were told they
were not the right fit for the job. One of the guys that worked in the
kitchen came and welcomed me and told me if I had questions, he would be
happy to help me out. A few of my coworkers had noticed and came up to
me and told me to stay away from him and that he was bad. For them to
say something like this led me to ask them why they had thought he was
'bad', and their answer was "he came from the hood which makes him bad".
The 'hood' in my town is the black community that everyone says to stay
away from when in reality nothing bad has ever happened there. Even
though he had never given my coworkers a reason to think he was bad,
they were very quick to assume something about him because of where he
came from.

After experiencing situations like this firsthand, I started to pay
attention when eating at different restaurants. Within my hometown,
there is not one restaurant that has a black server besides for the
McDonalds. Most black people that work in a restaurant, are given a job
of making food for someone else or cleaning up other people\'s messes.
From some people's point of view, these are jobs that are considered to
be more appropriate for specific races. They are given jobs with less
pay and where they are not noticed by customers.

Within the Pager Discrimination Study, Devah Pager did research on
whether racial discrimination plays a role within a low-wage labor
market. To find the answer, Pager used an experimental research method
by sending out different races with equal resumes to find a job. Through
the experiment, it was found that there are different racialized
discrimination mechanisms used by employers. The first mechanism is
categorical exclusions which is when someone is not hired because of
their race. The next is shifting standards which require a more intense
interview based on someone's race. Lastly, job channeling is when
someone gets hired but is given a job that is considered to be more
appropriate for their race. It is less likely for a minority to get a
job because they are seen as unreliable, dishonest, or lacking social
abilities causing them to have to try a lot harder than white people.

For a very long time, it has been a common occurrence for black people
to be judged based on how they look. These judgments are often poor and
tend to degrade black people. They are seen as bad people because of
their skin tone. It is not common for a black person to be judged based
on who they are. It is more common for them to be judged by how they
look and where they come from.

Both of the restaurants where I have worked have discriminated towards
black people. Almost everyone on the staff was white and the bosses were
older and still had certain beliefs that would not normally be accepted
in today\'s society. The first and second restaurant partook in job
channeling. Many people who had applied for a job there got the job that
they had originally applied for, as long as they were white. On the
other hand, when a black person had applied, they were automatically
given a job that was more suitable for them. Those who worked in the
kitchen where they were not visible to the public were placed in
positions that the employer felt best fit them. Not only did they
represent job channeling, but they also represented categorical
exclusion. When a black person had applied for an open job, they were
not given it because of how they looked. This is not an issue that only
occurred within those restaurants, it is something that happens
everywhere.

Equality is something that everyone would like to believe in, but after
many years there still does not seem to truly exist. Through my
experiences within businesses, I have realized that there is still
racial discrimination and both races are not treated equally because
people are often quick to judge. Even though true equality has not yet
been achieved, that does not mean it cannot. It is important for people
to learn to get to know a person before creating ideas about them based
on what they look like. Encourage employers to instead of using
different discrimination mechanism, take the time to give black people
an opportunity to prove that they can be trustworthy, reliable, and good
workers. By doing so, it could create equality within businesses and
inspire other people to not be so quick to judge.
