[From the Perspective of "Other"]{.underline}

Tap, Tap, tap... straighten posture, shift weight, keep eyes down, no,
keep your eyes up, be confident, smile, look approachable. These are the
many thoughts that circle a woman\'s mind while walking down the street.
Billboards and magazines of the ideal woman\'s physique at every turn,
unable to escape the perfection of the surrounding. Above the want for
gentle eyes, silky hair, and radiant skin, there\'s one factor that far
outweighs the desire of my appearance and want of the "male gaze." The
thought so frequently pops into my head of what it would be like to have
the respect and stature as that of a man. Since the beginning of time,
women have been dissimilar, supplementary and seen as "other" to the
male sex. With no independent history, culture, or belief system, women
have been in the shadow of man, supporting one\'s goals, aiding in their
needs, and providing in any way achievable.

Since coming to UNCW I have visited the Recreation Center an average of
four days a week give or take. Wednesday, February 8th, 2023, I
approached the Rec Center eager to start my workout. After completing my
five sets on the leg press, I approached the young man on the squat rack
and asked, "Hey man, how many sets do you have left?" He responds, "Oh,
I just started a new workout, so four to five sets." With a smile on my
face, I answered, "Okay. May you please let me know when you're done?
Thank you!" After walking away, not two minutes go by, and the young man
sees what I assume to be his friend and gives him the rack. Although a
little shocked, and thrown off by this interaction, I brushed it off. I
then approached the only other squat rack in the gym and proposed to the
man the same question. After being looked at from head to toe, he
informs me that he has two sets left. Walking away, I watch the same
event transpire. Giving another man the rack, my jaw drops in disbelief.
Staring at the situation before me, I was puzzled. Thinking of all the
possible reasons why one would not allow another a simple request, I
struggled to come to a single conclusion. A couple days went by, and I
spoke to one of my male friends that lives in my dorm, who also actively
attends the gym. That's when it hit me. I questioned, "How do I earn the
respect of a man?" His head tilted abruptly, paused for a minute and
mumbled, "I don't know." As a man who often makes jokes about gender
differences whether that be "women can't drive" or "women wear clothes
for men, not for themselves," he was not pleased with the treatment I
was experiencing at the gym.

Raised in a divided home with a dominating father and a goal driven
mother, I saw the many conflicts that not playing your "gender role"
creates. My father informed me from a young age of a woman\'s role in
society. The caretakers of the household and appeal to the man\'s eye.
Since 2nd grade, I have desired a career in the medical field,
specifically, a medical doctor. These desires were constantly shot down
as my father would say, "You shouldn't become a doctor, you won't have
time for family, for your kids. Why not be a nurse?" He attempted to
condition me to dress, speak, and portray myself as something to be
advertised and admired by others. I can't tell you the countless times
I\'ve heard, "that isn't ladylike." In comparison, my mother taught me
that I am capable of anything permitting I put in the work... until I
wanted to join the military, then all bets were off. Women that stray
from their gender role and lack the desire to conform are put in
undesirable positions in regard to relationships and profession. If
surrounded in a male dominated environment, there will always be
something to prove, because after all who wants the girl on their team.

Simone de Beauvoir, writer, activist, and social theorist focuses many
of her pieces on women, most notably, "Second Sex." She voices how women
are viewed in comparison to men and how naturally speaking women are the
inferior sex and always have been. In 1949, Beauvoir explained women\'s
place, when expressing, "They live dispersed among men tied by homes,
work\...to certain men-fathers or husbands-more closely than to other
women " (pg-261). As a tactic of control, men have kept women separate,
focusing their attention to the kitchen, the house, and the children.
Without any purpose independently, there is an attachment that is
created that ensures that a woman would not survive without the economic
stability of a man. Due to the lack of financial contribution, women
have had to compensate with their appearance, cooking skills, and
physical affection for a man. A woman\'s purpose has been to serve,
whether that be their husbands or their fathers, but never themselves.
Self-interest is a pleasure not given, as every other member in their
household takes priority. In addition to that, on page 260, Simone
quotes the famous Aristotle, "The female is female by virtue of a
certain lack of qualities" (Woman as Other). In this section of the
piece, Beauvoir quotes many respected men in their fields, all of them
displaying women as something to be conquered, lesser, and defective.
Right off the bat, women have been almost pitied for their ignorance and
have played the role of the underdog for far too long. Without quality
education, resources, and equal opportunity how would one expect a man
and a woman to possess the same qualities, skills, and experiences at
that time. Marilyn Frye had an excellent analogy for comparing
oppression to a bird in a cage. Being caught in metal bars or wires,
restricts one\'s ability to spread their wings and flourish. No matter
how many times one chirps or chitters, the barrier set in place by the
bars allows the system (men) to observe with leisure, benefiting from
the beauty, while the decoration remains trapped inside.

As time has gone on and women have strayed from their household duties,
there is a new problem underway. In an attempt to control women, there
is a new war in place, women against women. Naomi Wolf provides insight
on the new struggles women encounter when stating, "\...attractive,
successful working women, there is a secret "underlife" poisoning our
freedom ; infused with notions of beauty... self-hatred, physical
obsessions, terror of aging, and dread of lost control" (pg. 1). Every
place you go there is an illustration of this in society. Women often
speak of getting botox, liposuction, fake tans, and other aesthetic
procedures. Girls in high school are even infected with this desire, as
they chase the appearance and attention of the women they see on social
media. The gossip of putting others down for their bodies, continues, as
the standard of beauty increases. If you haven't heard, the attraction
scale has changed from the 1-10 rating to 1-30 to account for breasts,
face, and derriere. Pornography has climbed to the top of the ladder for
mainstream media. As women have begun to advance in society, attend
college at higher rates than men, fight for higher level positions of
power, one more factor of control had to be computed to once again
seclude and create a barrier of division between women across the
country, and the world.

Through experience and evaluation of the society around me, I have come
to realize that the concept of earning the respect of a man is
unattainable. Upon seeing an individual, there are certain perceptible
characteristics including age, race, and sex. Before a word even slips
off one\'s tongue, perceptions have already been made based on their
physical appearance and overall presentation. Women around the world
continue to feed into this perpetual sequence by upholding the standards
of the beauty myth. Conforming to the expectations will forever yield
the same undesirable results. Women often talk about how upsetting it is
to be treated with such lack of kindness and respect by men but take it
without refusals like they've been conditioned to. I too have played my
own part in this debacle, however in recent times I have gained a deeper
perspective regarding the identification of where these issues stem and
the potential solutions to these problems. This pattern continues
because the men and women in this society that are raising their
children are doing a poor job of straying from the collective
consciousness and the double standards held to each sex. My mother still
tells me to not go out at night, still asks me if I have pepper spray on
my keychain. My stepfather, a man\'s opinion I hold in high regard, told
me that I should not step off campus alone, that I should bring a
"friend", but we all know when he said that he meant male friend.

This is the problem of our generation and the generations before us.
There is an undeniable power struggle of respect between men and women
and mothers and fathers have aided in this neglect. Children are only as
skilled as we give them space to be. Having different standards for your
opposite sex children causes boys to think girls are not capable, not
competent, and not trusted. That is why when a woman does something as
well or better than a man, all eyes are on her. The beauty myth and
expectation of performing one\'s role denies a woman her full potential.
Discouragement from family, friends, and peers does not create a
supporting environment to breed success. Whereas a man has been raised
to believe he will accomplish great things and be an author of his own
destiny. This superiority complex plays a role in our everyday
interactions. Whether that be the classroom, grocery store, household,
or the gym, one does not escape it.

In addition to that, without respect for one\'s wishes and values held
dear to them, consent has become a major dilemma of this parental and
societal failure. Without the necessary backing from a young age,
regarding the utility of men and women, the "other" sex has been
exploited and made as a tool to serve man\'s sexual desires and
cravings. The thrill of the chase, the anticipation of the capture, this
animal behavior has been tolerated for far too long. Regardless of the
regulations that have been established in workplaces, women still face
many issues of respect from their male coworkers, customers, and
employers. What appears to be a never-ending cycle is in fact just
another representation of the lack of respect across the country and the
world for women as the "incidental" being. A man should be equally
afraid of a woman as he is a man, and a woman should know that she is
capable of more than being just another pretty face.

In conclusion, women have been thrown into a box of seclusion and
limitation since the beginning of time. The expectations set in the
Stone Age still hold true today and the generations to come will
continue to encounter these issues of unbalanced respect. Without the
change of the collective consciousness spread throughout society
regarding the role of a man vs the role of a woman and parental
standards, the fight of oppression will always be a losing battle. As
the fight goes on, measurements will be taken to continue to control
women whether that be their role, job opportunities, appearance, or the
community within us. The ability and respect of an individual should not
be determined by what is between their legs, but between their ears.

[Works Cited]{.underline}

Minas, Anne. *Gender Basics: Feminist Perspectives of Women and Men 2nd.
Ed.* Wadsworth, 2000.

Simone de Beauvoir. *Others object: Woman as Other.* Second Sex, 1949.

Wolf, Naomi. *The beauty myth: How images of beauty are used against
women*. London, Vintage Classic, 2015.
