Gender Norms

Growing up as a girl while playing a "male" sport was never easy.
Society thinks that girls are supposed to play with barbie dolls, wear
pink, and wear dresses. Growing up I never did the things that gender
roles seguested. I wore tennis shoes, and boy shorts and wore my hair in
a ponytail everyday to school for the longest time. Doing this people
thought differently of me, boys and girls. Even family members had said
some things to me. People should understand that it's a different time
now and that it's okay to do things that the other gender might do. It
is okay for girls to be a little masculine. West and Zimmerman's "Doing
Gender" and Wolf\'s "Beauty Myths" helped me understand why I was judged
the way I was.

I grew up playing soccer for my whole life. I had played for eleven
years. During elementary and middle school I had never dressed "girly".
I had always dressed sporty and played soccer with the boys at recess.
This created many problems for me growing up. It made it difficult for
me to make friends in elementary school. At this age, girls started to
find an interest in boys and would start to act and dress a certain way
because of it. Me on the other hand didn't. I just wanted to dress comfy
and do what I wanted to do. Many girls would want to just hangout
together or go sit and talk during recess. I wanted to play soccer and I
was the only girl who wanted to do this. It made it harder for me to
make friends, and even get closer with the girls in my classes. When I
started to get older and became interested in boys, this made it hard
for me. Many of the guys like I had crushes on did not like me back
because of the way I dressed and projected myself. They didn't like how
I was more "masculine" because I didn\'t want to wear dresses or wear a
lot of makeup. This was hard for me at a young age because kids want to
be liked and usually have a hard time dealing with being ostracized.
Once I got to 8th grade, I

started to dress less like a tomboy. This wasn't because I wanted to
please other people, I started to get my own sense of fashion. I was
still playing soccer too, and I could see the difference in the friends
I made once I started to dress differently. I remember when I was in 8th
grade, I went to spend thanksgiving with my step dads side of the family
and my grandma came up to me and said that I was dressed like a boy
because I was wearing jeans and a flannel. On that side of the family,
they want all the girls to wear dresses to family gatherings. I was the
only girl, except for my older sister, that wouldn't wear dresses. All
the women on that side of the family never really liked my sister and I
for some reason, and I think it's because we didn't dress the way they
thought a girl should dress. I don't know if that\'s a southern thing
but it definitely wasn't a thing for my side of the family. It's
upsetting to know that people look at you differently just because you
don't fit the standard of what society wants you to wear or what you
won't wear.

"Doing Gender" by West and Zimmerman helped me understand more about why
people thought I should look and dress differently. The authors said
that there are many categories when it comes to how you act or present
yourself. There is sex category, this is how others categorize your
gender display. Gender, this is social categories that the collective
consciousness creates. Doing gender, which is the agency. For example,
girls are supposed to wear makeup and boys are supposed to play with
cars. Acting you the gender you lay claim and doing what is socially
acceptable with is conforming to social norms. Many people conform to
social norms. Like doing what is appropriate for that gender.

Another author, Wolf, wrote about the beauty myths. She talks about how
female beauty is a political weapon against women\'s improvement. How
women buy things to make them more "beautiful\" and then society makes a
profit off making women insecure. Women feel pressured to adhere to the
unrealistic social standards that have been set for them. "Beauty"
wasn't for every

woman, it was a serious thing to make sure you got married according to
Wolf. Feminism is a political movement or an idea about the experience
of being a woman in a patriarchal system. Feminism helps change the way
that women are perceived and how people think they should act and look.

Looking back at how people looked at me and what I know now about gender
norms, I now have an understanding on why people might have judged me
based on what I wore. My step dads side of the family grew up a certain
way where boys had to all dress a certain way and girls dressed very
preppy and girly. Every girl had to wear a dress. That was their way of
West and Zimmerman's "Doing Gender". My family, on the other hand,
parented me in a way that made me feel like I could be whatever I
wanted. They let me dress what made me feel most comfortable and
confident. The doing gender concept helped me understand why many boys
didn't like me when I was young.

They probably grew up in a family that told them that they had to act a
certain way, dress a certain way, and since they are a boy they have to
like girls. Plus girls are supposed to act girly which means they are
supposed to like girly girls. I was never a girly girl which can explain
why no boys liked me when I was a tomboy. It's not their fault. It's
just the collective consciousness of gender norms.

Wolf's writing on beauty myths helped me understand the way the women in
my step dads family acted. They grew up to give into the beauty myths.
They always have to have makeup on and dress nice, letting society make
a profit off of them. I get that women want to look pretty but I just
never was able to give into that type of stuff. They grew up very
differently than I did and that is why they looked at me differently. I
believed that It was more attractive to be athletic and strong than to
look girly. Not saying that it's unattractive to look girly, because I

have definitely gotten more girly over the years. My family has always
been an athletic family and that was the way I fit in with the people
that were around me growing up.

In conclusion, these concepts helped me understand and a lot of women
understand the way that gender norms in society influence the way that
women are and are perceived. Many women feel the need to give into these
norms to feel exempted and since I didn't at a young age it was harder
for me to fit in. The more time that passes by the more lenient these
norms will be with women.
