Healthcare: A Place of Oppression

It is a common experience between women to be ignored when your pain is
at an all time high. Whether it is menstrual cramps or an undiagnosed
chronic illness, women are repeatedly ignored and brushed to the side
for being "too much" and "overdramatic" when it comes to pain. After
hearing these phrases over and over, a woman may start to believe this
and push their pain to the sides; complying with the stereotype that
women are indeed too dramatic and that they really have nothing to be
complaining about. In modern day times, women are told that their pain
is not as bad as it seems, due to the place they have been put into by
men as the "others" or secondary counterparts. Women must push past
these boundaries to make themselves heard as individuals.

Even as a nineteen-year-old, I have seen women brushed off by the
healthcare system more than I would like to, by female and male workers
alike. During my first semester at college, I met a girl named Mary,
who's name I changed for privacy purposes. Mary recently suffered from
what she knew to be a kidney infection. She knew this because she has
suffered from these before and knows exactly what the pain feels like.
It hurt to laugh, to walk, to breath, to talk, and especially to pee.
She was in constant pain for almost two weeks when she decided to see a
doctor to help her get treated. When Mary arrived at the doctor's
appointment she made to try to alleviate the pain, the nurse, who was a
woman herself, told her that she was just overreacting and that "it's
definitely not a kidney infection. Your back is probably just hurting."
Mary continued to argue that she knew pain like this and knew that
something wasn't right in her own body, and the nurse argued back that
Mary was exaggerating her pain and that she didn't need medication or
treatment.

This argument continued until the nurse finally gave in and tested Mary
for a kidney infection. While nurses are usually supposed to take the
sample and then move to another room to test, the nurse gathered the
sample, looked Mary in the eyes and said, "I'm going to test this in
front of you to prove that there is nothing wrong with you." The nurse
tested the sample, and of course, Mary had a kidney infection. After the
results came back, the nurse still acted cold and unsympathetic towards
Mary, even though Mary was right about her own symptoms. She had to
fight a nurse, someone whose job it is to help people and believe their
patients to even get a test and receive the medical care she needed to
feel better and to get the medication she needed. To make matters even
more confusing, the nurse was a woman, but because she was educated and
trained by a system that favors men, she still brushed Mary off. If Mary
had perhaps been a man, her symptoms would have immediately been
listened to, and she would have been tested and treated promptly. This
situation explains the way that women are treated as "others" and
overlooked because they aren't considered individuals, but rather
counterparts to their men.

In *Woman as* Other, Simone DeBeauvoir explains the position of women in
comparison to men. As a feminist and a student of social theory and
modern philosophy, she can understand the female struggle, and why that
struggle exists in almost every social situation. DeBeauvoir lived
through this type of oppression through the scope of a upper class
perspective. She interprets the roles of women and men in the modern
world thoroughly and states, "He is the Subject; he is the Absolute. She
is the Other" (DeBeauvoir 260). This is a perfect explanation of women
when they are compared to men. DeBeuvoir explains the role of women in
society within her writing, especially as simply a counterpart to men.
She also explains that women often play into these roles, as they have
been convinced by societal norms that they are the "others", and their
opinions have no relevance.

Women find breaking out of this entrapment to be difficult. As explained
in *Woman as Other*, women tend to have no shared stories, religion,
past, or sense of community like other communites such as African
Americans, those of Jewish descent, and immigrant workers. A woman is
completely alone in her own world, and while different women might be
experiencing the same situations, they would never know because it has
been instilled in modern women that they should not be complaining about
their issues, but instead staying quiet and subdued for the men around
them. DeBeauvoir states, "They live dispersed among men, tied by homes,
work, economic interests, and social conditions to certain men --
fathers or husbands -- more closely than to other women" (DeBeauvoir
261). Women are so disconnected from their own selves that they become
disconnected from the women around them, even though most women suffer
from the same oppression daily.

While the way that Mary was treated in a place of medical care is
inexcusable, it is expected. Since the nurse was a women pushed into a
career typically controlled by men, she is so disconnected from her
patients (especially women) that she can't believe a woman fully when
they say they are in extreme pain. When women play into this stereotype,
this enforces their role as the "other". Playing into this stereotype
also continues to allow men to stand on the pedestal of being the
"Absolutes". Men's words are law, as show throughout history, and when
they say that a woman is overreacting to pain, they must be right. It is
often difficult to not play into this stereotype unfortunately. I find
that even I do it when talking about an injury because, often, a man in
the conversation will counter the pain with the question of "But have
you even had *this* happen to you?" or something similar. After hearing
this so many times, it is easier for women to just stay silent in the
way that men want them to be rather than expressing more pain or
discomfort and sticking up for themselves.

It is a common tactic for men to push women to the side, especially when
they are talking about their own personal pain. Simone DeBeuvoir
explains it best when she labels women as "others". Healthcare is a
place in which a woman can be completely brushed off when she should be
listened to and taken care of, which puts women into this "other"
position. It is not "over dramatic" to complain about pain, men do it
all the time. To tell women that they need to stop complaining about
something that isn't that bad is to play into the stereotype that women
should be silent and submissive, the perfect woman for a man or their
"One". While Mary's story may seem unbelievable, women suffer from this
sort of treatment every day in the medical field. Whether their pain is
mild or the most excruciating feeling they have every felt, women
deserve to feel heard and cared for in the world today.
