> Hegemonic Masculinity and Hazing: The Brotherhood

These hands don't haze, but I sure have witnessed it. Today, hazing is a
major topic in our society, especially in the context of Greek life and
sports teams. Hazing has been a strategy across many centuries for
groups or organizations to allow new members to prove themselves worthy
of acceptance into the group. Recently, however, hazing has been
condemned by society due to the very dangerous and potentially lethal
repercussions of physical and mental abuse new members may be faced
with. Although, when done correctly and controlled, hazing may provide
benefits to a group that could not be achieved without it.

My Junior and Senior years of highschool I transferred to a private,
prestigious, K-12 school. This school contained predominantly
academically inclined students, many in my graduating class to go on to
ivy league schools with beyond impressive resumes. With the large
percentage of students solely enrolled for the accelerated learning
there was one group that stood out from the rest: The Men's Lacrosse
team. This team consisted of high class athletes, who had a legacy of
being one of the best teams in the state with many State Championships
as well as Division 1 alumni, and current players. I tried out for the
team at the beginning of my Junior year, even though lacrosse season is
in the spring; they practiced year round and participated in a winter
league.

After successfully joining the team, the first thing I noticed was what
they called themselves, "The Brotherhood". The main idea of this was to
form themselves into something more meaningful than just a sports team.
The brotherhood was like a family, every brother does their part to
support the family and hold their brothers accountable. This meant
pushing past physical limits in practice, showing up early to practice,
and putting your body on the line for your brothers in game. This
ideology was nothing new to most of the players, since it had been

introduced to them as early as sixth grade, the earliest you can join
the middle school lacrosse team, which fed into the Varsity team.

With a family-like ideology in place, meant that there was a family-like
hierarchy. First came the captains of each section of the team: the
offensive captain, the defensive captain (me) and the goalie captain,
who was seen as the main figure, calling the shots. Each position acted
as a father figure for those learning how to play their position; often
players would turn to their captain for advice about the game and how to
improve. Past captain positions, the implied "rank" of a player was
based on seniority. So, with an extremely complicated set of
relationships amongst the team, came with a strong passion for the
brotherhood amongst most players. This made this hazing acceptable for
the family, as being a part of the team meant lots of hard work,
responsibility, and time commitment.

During the middle of my Junior season, right before playoffs, I
witnessed the first hazing event since being a part of the team. A
sophomore player who was a large factor in the team missed practice
without an excuse, and it was very clear to the other captains, mainly
our goalie, that the player needed a punishment. The senior goalie
recommended a "firing squad" for the player, which meant the offender
would put on their helmet, line up against the back wall of the locker
room, and every brother on the team would whip a tennis ball as hard as
they could at the offender. This event took place the next practice, in
which the player gladly accepted their punishment, knowing he had let
down his brothers. Obviously, with no way a ball could hit the players
head, he was not injured at all, but was left with some nasty bruises
from being hit with the balls. Although, lacrosse players having
bruising on their body's was common, being that the way a defenseman
would steal the ball from someone was slashing at their stick with their
own, almost every time connecting with a players body and arms. This
meant that the bruising on the

offending player would never be questioned, and the hazing incident
would go undiscovered unless someone spoke up about it: which never
happened. From this moment on, I realized just how effective this
punishment was. Not a single player the rest of the year missed
practice, despite them being two hours long every day.

The hazing and ideology of brotherhood amongst the team proved to be a
prime example of culturally created hegemonic masculinity. The
foundation of the idea of hegemonic masculinity is the notion that men
are expected to be powerful and emotionless. When a guy exhibits
stereotypically masculine behaviors that conform to cultural norms, that
behavior is known as hegemonic masculinity. The brotherhood offered just
that, a chance to be bothered about emotion, and an opportunity to
represent yourself as a strong and fierce athlete. With our school
consisting of largely unathletic branaics, it was seen as something
special to be a part of the manly, tough, and decorated brotherhood.
Brett Stoudt in "You're Either In or You're Out" comments on standing
out in a private school, "With everyone at Rockport trying to be
different, they all blend together." (Stoudt 282) Everyone at my school
tried to be different through their school work, resumes, and potential
school options, inevitably forming one big group of academically driven
students. The lacrosse team offered players an identity that was
separate from the rest, and one that proved very desirable from
outsiders. Also, without a football team, a large percentage of the
student body would attend games, especially the two state championships
we went to in 2021 as well as 2022. This separated the brotherhood from
the school\'s main population, in the sense that we were known as
masculine and strong athletes. Also, this carried over into aspects of
school that did not involve lacrosse, such as clothing choices and
behavior. Most male students were commonly dressed in collared shirts
and khaki pants, while members of the brotherhood could be easily
recognized by varsity jackets and athletic clothing. It was

beyond evident that lacrosse players intended to represent their "jock"
identity, and were extremely proud of holding a position on the team.

While some may argue that hazing and reinforcement of masculine traits
are dangerous and potentially damaging to an impressionable young man's
identity, the brotherhood proved otherwise. However, do I really think
this masculine influence had no downsides? Obviously not; I could tell
many players represented themselves as someone they were not, limiting
emotions, as well as being aggressive and condescending towards
non-athletes. Yet, this family structure provided benefits unimaginable
from the outside. Every player knew they could count on each and every
brother to stick by their side no matter what. In some cases, this even
prevented other potential bullying incidents from occurring. Also, many
players who had weak home lives or had no one to express their emotions
to, found themselves opening up to their new found family, willing to
speak on very private struggles and complications in their lives. I
experienced this personally, when a young freshman approached me and
cried on my shoulder about the death of a family member.

In conclusion, hazing and violence stemming from hegemonic masculinity
should never be encouraged or glorified. The potential dangers of
physical harm and mental abuse make the concept illogical and damaging.
However, this is not to say that hazing is incapable of providing
benefits to those who choose to endure it. As a member of the
Brotherhood, it provided many benefits such as: an outlet to express
emotions and feelings, counteracting the masculine identity players
represented in public. A sense of belonging and purpose for those who
did not belong to a group they could count on. As well as learning
discipline and work ethic through a strict practice schedule, and taught
players to respect those who had earned it. Despite the fact that hazing
in this instance helped members develop comradery and commitment, its
negative effects

have prompted calls for its elimination in modern society. In this
context, it\'s critical to comprehend hazing\'s historical and ongoing
repercussions as well as how it affects people\'s lives and society as a
whole.
