Homeless People are Lazy

Is the "American dream" real? Class is a major institution in our
society, affecting relationships, quality of life, and even health. In a
country where we are taught that class doesn't define us, we experience
the binds and restrictions of class. In his study of three technically
"middle class" people, Matsios proves that the social class you're born
in will most likely be the class that you die in. He also shows that
class depends on material things like jobs, education, and salary, which
influence time, interactions, and quality of life. Matsios shows that
class mobility is very uncommon and extremely difficult. He contradicts
the widespread misconception that if you work hard enough you can make
more money or get a better job. Lastly, he emphasizes the gaps between
classes and our misapprehensions about the distances between class and
distribution of wealth.

My family is upper middle class. My dad is a doctor, and his salary
supports all our expenses with money to spare. I grew up in a
three-story brick house in the suburbs of Hickory, North Carolina. I
went to private school from kindergarten to eighth grade and then
boarding school for all four years of high school. A year of tuition at
my boarding school cost almost the same as a year at a private college.
My classes were advanced, and the academics were very competitive. Many
alumni went onto ivy league schools and had successful careers straight
out of college. My parents always stressed the importance of education
and working hard in school. As a child of two immigrants from Korea, my
dad always tries to instill a strong work ethic in me and my two older
siblings. I looked up to my dad when I was young and was very receptive
to whatever he preached to me.

My dad believes that homeless people are lazy. He says that they are a
product of bad grades and not listening to their parents. He always
drilled this idea into my head when I was little. Whenever we stopped at
a red light on a busy street and saw a homeless man standing on the
median asking for money, my dad would simply look the other way and
scare me by saying something like "that's what happens when you don't
work hard" or "he just needs to get out of the road and get a job".
Naturally, I was terrified of becoming homeless. The way my dad sees it,
there was a very thin line between getting a C on a test and living out
of your car. It seemed so easy to dive into a downward spiral which
ended in homelessness. I was terrified. What was protecting me from
becoming homeless? Am I smart enough to not be homeless? Why were so
many people homeless? As I got older and failed many more tests, I
realized that it is very unlikely for me to degrade from upper middle
class to poverty, but why? Why are the gaps between classes so
disproportionate?

In Matsios's analysis of the class system in the United States, he draws
examples of three people at different levels within the middle class and
compares their lifestyles. The first person analyzed was Harold
Browning, a vice president of a corporation who grew up in the Upper
East Side of Manhattan. He attended private schools his whole life and
went on to attend a prestigious four-year university. Browning's parents
also payed for extra tutoring in French and mathematics. At the age of
23, Browning got his first full time job in the family business of
assistant manager of operations. His last job, at age 38, was the
executive vice president at SmithBond and Co digital instruments with a
salary of \$325,000 annually. From Browning's profile, it is evident
that he grew up in a wealthy family which equipped him with a stable and
successful career.

The second analysis Matsios presents is Bob Farrell. Son to a machinist
and a retail clerk, Farrell attended a public school in Queens, New
York. He had no supplemental tutoring except an SAT prep class and went
on to a two-year community college. His first full time job was a
service-station attendant at the age of 19, while he still took college
classes in the night. His last job at 38 was an assistant sales manager
at a building supplies firm, with an annual salary of \$45,000. While
Bob Farrell is still in the middle class, there is a clear difference
between his lifestyle and salary in comparison to Harold Browning. The
last study Matsios presents is a member of the lower middle class:
Cheryl Mitchell. Mitchell's father was a janitor, and her mother was a
waitress. She attended a large public school in Brooklyn, New York, and
did one semester of community college, although ended up dropping out
for financial reasons. Her first job at 17 was a clerk at a local bakery
and her last job at 38 was a nurse's aide. Her annual salary is about
\$16,000 and she lives in a three-room apartment with her son and
elderly mother. Although they are both considered "middle class", Harold
Browning and Cheryl Mitchell could not have more different lifestyles.

While Cheryl's life ambition is to "get out of the ghetto", Harold owns
a vacation home with a full staff of maids and cooks. The class outcomes
of each person are specific to material resources like jobs, money, and
time. For example, Cheryl works as a nurse aide, with longer shifts,
giving her less time to spend with her family and take vacations. Bob
Farrell has a higher salary, therefore he is able to spend time watching
tv with his family and take a beach vacation during the summer. With
these studies, Matsios highlights just how wide of a range the middle
class is and what lower versus upper middle class look like. In this
study, he shows us the huge gap within the middle class. He emphasizes
that the subject's class growing up influenced their level of education,
which affected where they were employed and their salary. Harold had
private tutors and went to a prestigious four-year college, which gave
him an educational background for a higher paying job. He also had
networking connections through the family business, which got him his
first job. Through his study Matsios challenges the idea of the
"American dream" by revealing that these people started out in the same
class that they ended in, unable to climb up the ladder or fall.

In the context of Matsiois's study, my dad's belief that homeless people
are homeless because they are lazy can be disproved and my irrational
childhood fear of being homeless can be assuaged. Matsios's data
displayed a strong correlation between initial birth class and the
ending class. Subjects who started with more money and better educations
went on to get better paying jobs and remain in the same class they were
born into. Harold Browning was born with the resources he needed to earn
a return on his hard work. Cheryl Mitchell attempted to get a college
education, but was unable to because of financial reasons, not laziness.
Matsios proves that it is extremely difficult to escape poverty if you
are born into poverty and do not have the resources to get a high-paying
job or education. In addition, there is an extremely thick line between
upper middle class and homeless. As I grew up with money and a higher
education, I was born with all the resources which help me to be
successful. It would be almost impossible for me to become homeless with
my class standing because like Matsios proved, the "American dream" does
not exist. Rising and falling throughout the classes is not easy and
very rare.

My dad was wrong in his accusations and prejudices against homeless
people. To assume that people are homeless because they are lazy is
extremely incorrect and does not consider the resources they lack which
are necessary to get a job or maintain a consistent job with a livable
salary. The gaps between the classes are bigger than ever, making it
almost impossible to raise your class without already being born with
money. The misconception that people are poor because they don't want to
work is widespread throughout the upper classes. The more that the upper
class fails to understand just how inescapable and hopeless poverty is,
the bigger the gaps will become. If everyone thinks like my dad, the
Cheryl Mitchells of the world will never "get out of the ghettos."
