**How Beauty Standards Are Killing Women from Within**

Have you ever found yourself envying an attractive actress? It's nothing
to be embarrassed about, it is a common emotion when faced with popular
actresses who are stunningly beautiful and live these glamorous lives.
However, I guarantee I can describe the character's general appearance.
She probably had flawless skin, a flat stomach, large breasts, and a
small waist that tapers out into a larger buttock region, yet her legs
are thin enough to leave a gap between her thighs. Was I close?
Predicting to physical features of a common actress or celebrity is not
as difficult as you think in the age that we live in. In a time that is
supposedly accepting of all people no matter their size, shape,
ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, or any other factor that makes
them unique among others, there remains an underlying standard for
women's beauty that becomes increasingly more complex as the world of
social media expands. Society claims to be increasingly concerned with
the health of our bodies yet continues to objectify and judge women
based on their physical features, which leads to all kinds of health
issues including depression, anxiety, body dysmorphia, and eating
disorders.

The topic of beauty standards and mental health is not a new topic to
society, but rather one that has become increasingly more popular as our
society transitions into the era of "Postmodern Beauty." This new era is
incredibly detrimental to the development of the personality,
self-image, and overall mental of women of all ages. As a woman myself,
I have seen and experienced firsthand these starling effects and I am
frustrated at the fact that I have no choice but to mature in a culture
that is based on uniformity. As children, we see each other as equals,
with no real awareness of the shape and size of our bodies. We are
fascinated with what the world has to offer and see our bodies as the
simple vessels for life that they are. However, at some point, a switch
is flipped, and you recognize that the orientation in which you present
yourself is subject to the judgment of everyone around you. Some
individuals gain great confidence or simply remain ignorant in
acknowledging the judgment. For others, this is an all-consuming force
that slowly chips away at their self-esteem and can cause catastrophic
changes in their lives.

As a child growing up in rural Pennsylvania, I had little knowledge of
social media and therefore was not aware of the standards to which I was
supposed to conform to, however, I failed to recognize the nonelectronic
influences around me. My parents did a wonderful job at raising my
siblings and I to appreciate ourselves, nature, and all the experiences
we had been blessed with. Although we protested for phones and other
electronics our friends boasted about at school, they remained firm in
shielding us from the inevitable detriment of these technologies.
However, they could not hold off forever, so when each of us started our
freshman year we got phones. I thought I was finally going to be able to
make friends and be cool, popular, and all of the things that a
13-year-old valued. But I quickly found out that being close friends
with my sibling and the way I dressed was "not cool" and my body
measurements were considered "obese." My spark of hope died out quickly
as I listened more closely to the comments my "friends" made about my
clothes, my personality, the way I spoke, my acne, and above all my
body. Comments I had previously dismissed as jokes as I was oblivious to
the harsh truth that being unique and experiencing normal bodily changes
were ridiculed.

In my first 2 months as a Freshman, I found my group of friends no
longer talking to me, excluding me from group activities, and pictures,
and making crude comments about my appearance behind my back. I began to
regress from my social and outgoing nature. I threw myself into school
and sports and became infatuated with social media and what was
acceptable. I stopped eating breakfast and what little food I ate for
lunch I ate alone in my English teacher's classroom to avoid judgment. I
became consumed with the looks I got in the hallways and overanalyzed
every conversation I had throughout my day trying to figure out if I
looked how they wanted me to. By the beginning of my sophomore year, I
had lost almost fifty pounds and I was constantly tired and hungry.
People commended me for my weight loss, but it still wasn't enough to
get back the friendships I had lost. Then the pandemic hit. Suddenly no
one saw me every day, I couldn't bury my thoughts in school or athletics
because everything was shut down. I was left alone with my thoughts,
social media, and most importantly my family. In such a constructive
environment I began to dig myself out of the hole of my negative
self-image and pulled away from the harsh environment of social media. I
gained back some of my weight in muscle and became more comfortable
being alone with myself and accepting my uniqueness.

Society is structured with the fa√ßade of encouraging each and everyone
to be different yet is only truly accepting of those who fit the mold of
"perfection." Although I was able to heal from such a dark time in my
life I still deal with constant anxiety and self-esteem issues that will
never really go away as long as I live presently in our society. I have
seen this need to conform in many other women in my life as well. I have
spoken to peers who have spent hundreds of dollars on lip fillers at 17
years old and more recently a friend expressed her excitement as her
breast enhancement surgery was just scheduled for the upcoming month,
she is only nineteen. Women are constantly striving to attain the
perfect body encouraged by multiple factors in American society from
influencers such as the Kardashians to weight loss supplement
advertisements to the simple plastic doll known as Barbie. These
"health" and "beautiful" bodies are riddled with unrealistic
measurements and the expectation that women have thin limbs and a flat
stomach while also sporting curves in "all the right places" and large
buttocks and breasts. Genetically this is nearly impossible and results
in continued dissatisfaction in your own skin. Sometimes the need to fit
in can become so powerful it prompts women to take drastic measures such
as surgeries or diets that often end in eating disorders, worsened body
dysmorphia, and festering mental health issues.

I am drawn to the complexity of this topic, not only from personal
experience and the fear of raising children in such a harsh society but
also from the elaborate take Naomi Wolf presents in her piece "The
Beauty Myth." Wolf defines the beauty myth itself as a commodified,
censored, and unreachable physical ideal to which women must adhere. In
other words, it is the idea that women should present themselves in a
beautiful way while men should always have access to these beautiful
women. This myth functions as a means of controlling the actions and
appearances of women and keeping them under the control of society. It
is a despicable idea rooted in the ideas of eating disorders,
inferiority, and domestic violence, each of which is incredibly toxic in
the grand scheme of how women see themselves. While Wolf claims the myth
of beauty is an order that dictates behavior rather than appearances, it
is clear that the behavior provoked produces actions contributing to the
beautification or enhancement of the appearance of the affected
individual. An example of this myth in effect was seen after the
Industrial Revolution. As women began to emerge from their stationary
place in the home they infiltrated secondary education, legal rights,
the circle of trade, and the liberal professions. Men sought a means to
weaken them and given that they already gained physical control of
themselves they imposed beauty standards to weaken them mentally,
contracting the rise of feminism. While this was imposed by all of
society, it was pushed heavily by males in order for them to remain in
prominent positions and keep women complacent in their servitude to men.
In our modern age, the beauty myth has shifted substantially in the
sense of what is its main source of power and momentum.

As Wolf outlined in her piece men played the largest role in imposing
this idea of strict beauty standards on women, motivated by remaining in
power above them. However, I believe in the 21^st^ century men are not
responsible for the mass imposition of standards on women. It is the
collective effort of both men and women to oppress other women. Men
still strive to stay ahead of women as per the age-old tale of gender
supremacy. The complexity comes when you consider how women oppress each
other. If you think about it, which gender is inherently obsessed with
the action of gossiping, a process of speaking poorly about someone
based on a judgment they have made? When women discuss other women more
often than not, they are critiquing the way the woman at hand has
presented herself to society, referring implicitly to her physical
features. Women partake in the breaking down of one another for the same
reason men do, to gain more power over the oppressed, and do so through
many means from physical speech to social media to pushing diet culture
through society. This makes it increasingly harder for women to escape
this maltreatment as it approaches them from all angles, attesting to
the chain reaction of anxiety depression, body dysmorphia, and
eventually eating disorders that lead to larger medical issues. Somehow
society has taken the nontangible idea of "beauty" and invested so much,
attention, time, energy, and resources into it allowing it to manifest
and effectively kill these women from the inside out through their own
behaviors and call it "healthy." Men and women will always have an
underlying imbalance in power, but it would be to unsensible the
imbalance women create within their own gender group.

Upon reevaluating Wolf's idea of "beauty myth" I am prompted to reflect
on my time in high school. My "friends" gossiped about my clothes, my
skin, and my weight for the purpose of putting themselves ahead of me
socially and ensuring that I would not be able to infiltrate their
group, all of whom fit the mold of the "Barbie Doll" figure. I altered
the way I acted by restricting my eating to change my appearance in an
attempt to win over their approval. I recognize now that men had nothing
to do will the change in my behavior, they were solely provoked by the
insecurity of other women fighting for their own spots in the small
social environment of our high school. A simple change in the
environment I spent my time in daily shifted my outlook on my body and
image, reinforcing the idea that without the presence of societal
pressure from others the beauty myth is nonexistent, or has no power
over an individual. If we are really looking for someone to blame, we
should blame ourselves because even those oppressed are guilty of
oppressing others. Wolf does an excellent job outlining this fact
throughout the rise of feminism to the 21^st^ century, requiring only
the elaboration of the reader's own place in society to recognize this
malicious pattern.

Our society is extremely contradictory in expressing and acting on their
values. We claim to be increasingly concerned with the health of our
bodies yet continues to objectify and judge women based on their
physical features, which leads to all kinds of health issues including
depression, anxiety, body dysmorphia, and eating disorders. We produce
diets, advertisements, influencers, and even toys that project the need
for an unrealistic body type to truly be "beautiful" in American
society. This means, for women, there is no true escape from these
detrimental standards. I would like to end on a positive note of hope
for a future free of oppressive standards but in honesty, there does not
seem to be a way to shift a pattern of oppression that spans thousands
of years and continues to reproduce itself in new ways as technology
continues to advance. Peace and equality among gender would be ideal yet
unrealistic, however, peace and support among women could go a long way
in helping to ease the impact of this oppression, allowing for the
cultivation of body positivity and positive self-esteem among all women.

Works Cited

Wolf, Naomi. The Beauty Myth: How Images of Beauty are Used Against
Women. London, Vintage Classic, 2015.
