3361 Final Paper

Self-esteem issues and negative personal identity can be very
problematic for people no matter age, race, gender, or sexuality. The
negative effects of low self-esteem and a negative personal identity
have the potential to reduce the quality of life dramatically of an
individual suffering from these afflictions. People who suffer from low
self-esteem often have trouble trying new things because of their
increased self-doubt. These individuals also have low resilience to
challenges presented in front of them because they do not have the
confidence or courage that they can handle the task at hand. They may
not feel the need to fully take care of themselves. Young people in
particular are prone to suffering from low self-esteem because they are
still forming a sense of identity and self-worth. Places such as middle
schools and high schools can sometimes feel like you are falling into a
sink hole. To counteract the negative effects that low self-esteem can
have on individuals, young people must challenge their own assumptions
of what other people think about them to regain confidence and not
suffer the results of low self-esteem.

The way that I viewed myself in middle school and my first two years of
high school (pre covid) was a lot lower than the way that I view myself
now. During this time, I did not have a lot of confidence in myself for
several reasons. In my head there was a hierarchy of popularity that
held incredible significance to me. In this hierarchy, I was in the
middle of the spectrum. I was not popular, but I was also not at the
bottom where the weird kids resided. The perception of my lower position
on the spectrum of popularity carried real weight and it lowered my
self-esteem significantly. I presumed that other people glanced at me
and concluded that I did not meet the high standard that only popular
people could live up to. I assumed people did not think the way I looked
or how I acted was cool. I thought that they thought that the way I
interacted with them was uncool and weird. Another reason for my
decreased level of confidence was my perception

of my own abilities as a student. All my friends took advanced classes
and were in the gifted program. The classes I took were honors, but they
were not the really tough classes my peers were taking, and they made
sure to pick fun of me.

When I was in 8^th^ grade, I was taking all honors courses, except
English. My friends would poke fun at me for taking a "regular" class
and I would laugh along with them. The toll that this had on me was not
huge, but it did lower my confidence in my abilities as a student
slightly and this weighed into my overall lower self-esteem during this
time. This combined with the perception of my rank on the popularity
hierarchy resulted in myself not being able to gain a lot of confidence
in myself and my abilities. I thought everything I did was subpar, and I
was not at the level of my classmates. This lower perception of myself
affected my confidence in my physical abilities and my social skills. I
did not think I was adequately physically fit at the time and even to
this day I find it hard to talk to people I respect because I think I do
not have the adequate social skills to have a successful conversation
with them. In other words, I think that they will think that I was bad
at conversation, and they will look down on me for that.

Charles Cooley was the first person to coin the term the looking glass
self. The concept of the looking glass self, according to Cooley, is
that the ideas and feelings people have about themselves are developed
in response to their perception and internalization of how others
perceive and judge them. For example, let us say there is a teenage boy
trying out for the basketball team. He comes into the first day of
tryouts nervous and unsure of his abilities. During tryouts, he notices
the coaches paying more attention to him and he sees a few players
pointing at him and talking amongst themselves. He interprets this as a
sign that the coaches and other players are impressed with his skills
and that he would add value to the team. Because of this, he is
motivated to play as best as possible so he can join the team. He
entered the tryout nervous and

unsure of his abilities, and then left the tryout more confident in his
abilities and he now sees himself as a skilled basketball player.

In this example the teenage boy\'s perception of himself was altered
based on how he thought others viewed him. The important distinction to
take away from this is that people\'s assumptions about how other people
perceive them can be accurate, but more importantly they can be
incredibly inaccurate as well. For example, when a dancer is performing,
she may look at the crowd\'s reaction and see that they are clapping and
smiling. She interprets this as them thinking that she is a good dancer.
However, in reality, everybody in the crowd thinks she is a bad dancer,
they are only being respectful. The interpretation of somebody\'s
assumptions to how other people think of them is highly unreliable and
can skew their personal reality far from the objective truth.

The way I thought others perceived me in middle school and high school
had no sound evidence or relevance to the objective truth of what they
actually thought about me. I shouldn't have based my self-worth off my
assumption of how other people thought about me because those
assumptions could have been completely inaccurate. When my friends made
fun of me for taking easier classes than they were, I interpreted this
as them thinking that I am actually less intelligent and cannot handle
the workload of a higher-level class. Knowing what I know today, the
assumption I made of my friends thinking I was less intelligent was
completely false because they explained to me that it was false a few
years ago. Even though my assumptions of my friend\'s beliefs towards my
intelligence were wrong, it still had a dramatic impact on my self-
esteem and overall ability to reach my full potential in school at that
time. Understanding Cooley\'s concept allows people to realize the
mechanism behind how their self-image and self-

esteem is created. This can give power to individuals by gaining control
over the way their sense of self is realized.

The negative effects that come with low self-esteem have a dramatic
impact on people\'s mental health. Charles Cooley\'s concept of the
looking glass mirror explains how people sometimes allow inaccurate
interpretations of other people\'s views and feelings towards them
decrease their self-esteem. In middle school and high school, my full
potential was not reached because I allowed false assumptions about my
intelligence and my popularity, diminish my confidence. This newfound
lens can allow people to challenge these inaccurate assumptions and
realize that what they assume other people think of them could be false.
Along with this, practicing increased self-worth and self-appreciation
can allow people to build their self-esteem and become confident with
their abilities and actions to reach their full potential.
