Final Essay Reflection

When you were a child, I\'m sure you wore silly costumes and the most
obscure outfits without thinking twice about it. Going to school in
wacky outfits, playing dress up with siblings, and back-to-school
clothes shopping were considered the highlights of childhood. Yet, the
older you get, the more you feel the pressure of society to look, act,
and dress a certain way. You stop playing dress up and no longer wear
your old favorite shirt with bananas on it. We as individuals are
expected to constantly fit into the molds society has made for us and
adapt to the changing trends. While men and women are both held to
obscure standards in the world, especially regarding beauty, women get
the blunt end of it.

Women are held on display in our world, consistently being stared at,
judged, ridiculed, and objectified. These stereotypical beauty standards
ultimately harm the female population, causing women to always feel as
if they have to prove themselves to society. *The Beauty Myth*, written
by Naomi Wolf, discusses the unjust standards we have for women in
society. "The quality called 'beauty' objectively and universally
exists. Women must want to embody it. This embodiment is an imperative
for women and not for men, which situation is necessary and natural
because it is biological, sexual, and evolutionary" (Wolf, 2015). From
the beginning of time, women have been objectified, demeaned, and preyed
upon. Women feel as if they have to achieve the impossible beauty
standards society has placed on them. They are exposed to media that is
photoshopped, airbrushed, or unrealistic which causes them to become
consumed with outward appearance. This causes severe insecurities and
often makes women feel invalidated in their femininity. This constant
feed of images can be incredibly toxic to the female population. Wolf
argues that society\'s beauty standards are unachievable and define
women as objects and often downplay their abilities and skills.

As a female growing up in an ever-changing world with constant changes
in appearance, I experienced the blunt end of the beauty myth. Going
back to middle school, I vividly remember I was drastically different
than the majority of the other girls. I was existing for myself and no
one else until I came to realize what society expected of me. I began to
face high amounts of bullying based on my outward appearance and began
to feel excluded from my fellow peers. I took those years in middle
school to change everything about myself before I entered high school. I
changed my hair, my clothes, my makeup, and the way I dressed to please
others. I felt the weight of society\'s expectations and felt as if in
order to be happy, I had to fit in.

Once I entered high school, I aimed to be more fit and active in the
community so I began coaching youth soccer. I used to play back in
middle school and the passion carried on into high school and college. I
am very knowledgeable about the sport and am very involved. Since I am a
female, I have often gotten snarky looks and slick side comments about
my ability to coach as a woman. I was no stranger to hearing "Should we
request a new team?" and "I don\'t think she will be as good as the male
coach we had last year". I even found that I was constantly doubting
myself. Based on the ideas I had in my mind of the ideal female soccer
coach, I would constantly compare and ridicule myself. I felt like maybe
I didn't look as athletic as I should or maybe I wasn't as fast as I
should be. The ideas and pictures that have been instilled in my mind
and in society caused me to overthink. The beauty myth had infiltrated
my life, making me feel unworthy. I felt like I had to overcompensate in
attitude and energy to make up for what I felt I was lacking in outward
appearance.

In my very first year of coaching, I worked alongside a male
counterpart. He was there to show me the ropes, strategies on how to
interact with the kids, and effective teaching methods. Oftentimes when
at practice, the parents as well as the male children tended to flock to
him. I would do my best to conversate and interact with them, but no
matter how hard I tried, it was not enough. I realized this is because
of the stereotypical idea that sports are a male-dominated field,
reigning supreme while having vast knowledge and ability. Once I began
to coach independently, I relayed to the parents I have previously
played and coached and was adamant about having good communication with
them. While they did trust my word, I could tell that they were still
skeptical. They felt like since a woman was coaching the team, the
instruction their kids were receiving would not be as good as if a male
counterpart coached. In other words, they felt cheated.

Simone De Beauvoir perfectly encapsulated my situation and how women are
portrayed. Beauvior described women as "others\'\'. Women are constantly
being seen as inferior to men, falling into an entirely different
category that is deemed not as worthy. Women are held to high standards
in regard to beauty and "womanly skills". No matter what status or
ability a woman has, she is still not as recognized as her male
counterpart. Yet, while women are incredibly powerful beings, they are
deemed incapable of doing traditional male skills, events, or
activities. "As is indicated by the common use of man to designate human
beings in general; whereas woman represents only the negative, defined
by limiting criteria, without reciprocity" (Beauvoir, 1972). The male
population has dominated many of the more successful jobs, roles, and
titles in society. This leads to a majority of men having more
advantages, higher wages, retention of success, and more. Men have more
power, influence, and supremacy in society, therefore, women are put on
the back burner, becoming a group of "others"\'.

The idea that men are the default power holders dates back to the
beginning of time. Take sports, government officials, and first
responders for example. When we look at these fields and their lasting
influence on America, we see that a majority, if not all, are dominated
by the male population. This is the driving factor in the suppression of
women. Beauvoir paints an elaborate picture of gender inequality and how
women are perceived as less adequate in society. Both writings from Wolf
and Beauvoir emphasize how women are considered less than and
objectified. These readings really put into perspective how unjust and
unfair women are treated in our world. Women have fewer rights, higher
rates of objectification, and a smaller rate of success in career fields
in the majority of the world.

With all this being said, I can often be part of the problem. Society
has drilled these beauty standards, roles, and ideas of women into our
minds and we are taught from a young age a woman's "place in society". I
tend to look at fellow women and judge them based on conventional beauty
standards. I tend to experience a feeling of shock when I see a woman do
a tough job that is traditionally completed by males. I know these
thought processes are common for a majority of the population. I saw it
firsthand from my experience coaching soccer. Those parents gave into
the "women as other" concept and I let the beauty myth engulf me.

The way women are perceived and treated in our society impacts the way
we operate as a whole. Women are considered maids, cooks, and moms. Men
are seen as the breadwinners, the successful, and the strong. This
creates a large gap and divides in our society that ultimately continue
the cycle of gender views for decades to come. In order to break this
precedent, we must stop viewing women as others and instead provide them
with equal opportunities. It is necessary to ensure equality and
fairness in order to demolish outrageous beauty standards and promote
the success of the female population.

Works Cited

DeBeauvoir. Woman as Other. The Second Sex. Penguin 1972.

Wolf, Naomi. The beauty myth: How images of beauty are used against
women. London,

Vintage Classic, 2015.
