Presenting the Self as the Selves

In today's world, everything is seen through a screen and returns to the
situation. With the rise of technology throughout the past few
centuries, individuals have expressed the idea of putting on a show.
This may be for a TV series, movie, social media, or YouTube. However, I
think social media has had the most significant effect on individuals
and the way that they act to express themselves in front of others.
These individuals express themselves in a way that receives more likes
and views. This idea goes hand-in-hand with Goffman's concept of "The
Presentation of Self." This essentially states that individuals present
themselves as on a "stage" performing to the world in different
situations. Depending on the situation, a different need must be met.
Everyone plays a part in collectively forming a situation. With so many
different roles to fill, Charles Cooley's idea of "The Looking Glass
Self" shapes the way that individuals see themselves as a single living
being through the eyes of others. This relates to the idea that
individuals present themselves in a sense that fits the needs of other
people. With society's functioning on the line, everyone's characters
must line up to create a single, flawless symphony, which creates the
life and world we know today.

For as long as I can remember, my mom has told me to understand and read
my audience. Until about a year ago, I had absolutely zero clue as to
what she meant deep down by saying it. It was when I began maturing when
I really understood the deeper meaning behind this. I have a role to
play, and depending on the situation, my role will vary. For instance,
in a professional conversation at work, I must be attentive, clear,
concise, and direct. Opposed to when I am hanging out with my friends,
where I can act any way that I want, within boundaries. In terms of
Goffman, I will present a part of me that is shown through my respected
audience providing the character that best fits the situation. It is a
simple idea, but in a social setting, it can really make the difference
as to who I am looking to impress.

For instance, I want to undergo a profession in healthcare, and I
thankfully live in an area where healthcare workers happen to also live.
When I have spoken to, say, physicians, I must play my part as an
intelligent, young individual looking to pursue a similar career as
them. However, this is not where that ends. The physician I am speaking
to must play the role of a provider, a lifesaver, and a respected
individual without flaw.

Going back to the idea that social media has shaped our world into the
way that people perceive information along with give it off, each person
is given a role based on what they post about. For instance, models have
the job of posting images that make them look good to support and to
promote clothing companies. Opposed to me, where I post videos of me
riding a scooter. No matter the content that an individual puts out in
the world, the idea behind it is to be seen posing as someone that will
attract views and likes. This goes into the idea of "The Looking Glass
Self." One quote stated by Cooley proposes the idea that "The thing that
moves us to pride or shame is not the mere mechanical reflection of
ourselves, but an imputed sentiment, the imagined effect of this
reflection upon another's mind" (Cooley). This really speaks towards a
lot of the emotions that one possesses. The idea behind this is to
provide a positive image of yourself in the eyes of the people around
you. An individual will change the way they are to fit the social
structure of a group of people to answer three questions. How will they
appear to others? What will people think of them? Are they liked?

Humans are defined as social creates, and embarrassment drives a lot of
factors in our lives. One emotion that is portrayed through Goffman's
stage representation is embarrassment. Depending on the social
situation, the embarrassment may come from anyone in a group of people.
Goffman states that embarrassment occurs when an individual's role has
been discredited. This relates to the idea that each person in a
situation is promoting the roles of every other person to collectively
create a stage that flows well. I particularly remember the day we
showed up to class, and Dr. Elliott showed up without his notes. The
role of the teacher had essentially been failed. The students in the
room played the role as individuals ready to learn from the professor.
All the roles were there, but the role of the professor was not played
as intended. For this example, the class did not know what to do next as
the situation was not played correctly. With one role having been played
incorrectly, everyone felt embarrassed for the awkward interaction.

I have had multiple hobbies in my life, switching from scootering, to
diving, and to, now, weightlifting. Therefore, the content that I post
on social media has varied over the past few years. Every time I post
something unlike the previous post, I feel off about posting it. Is this
something I want my followers to see? Will I get the same amount of
likes and view? Will I lose followers? All of these things are
irrelevant, but to the importance society has placed on numerical values
on social media, it means everything.

Social media, however, influences the lives of individuals by posing as
another audience to please. Cooley states "Each to each a looking-glass
Reflects the other that doth pass" (Cooley). In terms, this reflects the
idea that people look at others as a mirror as to who they are as a
person. Each interaction possesses the ability to shape the way we view
our role and beliefs in the world. This backs the idea that identity
comes from within. Social media, in this sense, reflects the way we see
ourselves. As we receive more views, likes, and positive comments, we
understand that our roles are being fulfilled. Going along with Cooley's
quote, Goffman states that "the means for producing and maintaining
selves do not reside inside the peg; in fact, these means are often
bolted down in social establishments" (Goffman). With such an important
idea behind producing and maintaining the self in a social
establishment. In terms of preventing embarrassment, the stage is then
broken up into two parts. The backstage along with the front stage. The
backstage, according to Goffman, refers to the social places where
people prepare to be on the front stage. The front stage is the
production of a social situation, in which each person plays a point.

Instagram and all these other means of social media have been a driving
factor in the shaping of today's society. Both Cooley's idea of the
"Looking Glass Self" and Goffman's "Presentation of the Self" correlate
to the way that individuals act in a social situation. In my opinion,
the attitudes and representations in which people perform have changed
significantly from life before technology. There are more social
standards that must be followed along with the high need for
reinforcement. The "Looking Glass Self" plays a part in all waking
function human beings perform today. How will this affect me? Will I
gain attraction? But, at the end of the day, all anyone is looking for
is an applause for their performance.

Works Cited

Cooley, Charles Horton. \"The Looking-Glass Self.\" The Human Nature and
the Social Order. New York: Charles Scribner\'s Sons, 1902. 153-156.
Print.

Goffman, Erving. The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life. Garden City,
N.Y.: Doubleday, 1959. Print.
