1246

Pretty Privilege

Is so-called pretty privilege a legitimate concept? Although people may
not realize or do not do it on purpose, it is believed that people who
fit the more conventional beauty standards of society are generally
treated better, get more attention, and even get special treatment
sometimes. Despite how good or smart a person is on the inside, they are
primarily judged based on how they look on the outside. In many settings
in America, from coffee shops to places of work, women are judged first
on their beauty. Despite women having little to no control over how they
look naturally, it is still most people's first line of judgment. It
encourages competition between women, which hinders their ability to
gain power in a society which favors men. The basis of this lies in the
fact that women are expected to be beautiful and fit into cookie cutter
standards, and the fact they are judged mostly on their appearance.

Subtle examples of women receiving special treatment because they are
traditionally considered beautiful in American society can be seen
everywhere. I personally have seen women with blonde hair and a happy
expression on their face get free discounts at stores or help carrying
something from a stranger, for no apparent reason other than they are
beautiful. Even though somebody who might have darker hair or look less
put together, but was just as kind to the person at the counter would
not get the same treatment. I also can say I have experienced this
firsthand. I can notice that people will treat me just slightly
differently when I am wearing makeup and dressed nicely compared to when
I am not and am wearing more relaxed clothing. A specific incident I can
recall of my experience happened at a coffee shop in my hometown. One
day when I went in wearing a put together outfit and wearing makeup, the
man behind the counter told me I was too beautiful to pay. The next day
I went in wearing no makeup and just a

t-shirt. All of a sudden, I was no longer too beautiful to pay. However,
when I was viewed as fitting society's beauty standards, the rules no
longer applied to me because of that. Nothing about the interaction had
been different, other than the fact I no longer fit whatever he viewed
as the perfect beauty standard.

Throughout American culture, the women who often play the protagonists
in movies or shows are almost always a perfect image of what society
deems as attractive. Even in movies, the exact example of being exempt
from paying for something small, such as a coffee is seen on numerous
occasions. Generally in Hollywood, you don't even see actresses who do
not fit the beauty myth because they never make it into the public eye.
Just by being perceived in the casting room as beautiful, they are
automatically given a leg up. In video games, music videos, television,
and essentially all public forums that are specifically designed for
some purpose, the women are always perceived to be beautiful. Even
though this may be achieved through editing real women, or just creating
an ideal version through animations, women and even young girls are told
that they have to look like this ideal, unrealistic, version of women.
No matter where it can be seen, it is always projected to look like the
same traditional vision of beauty.

Naomi Wolf's concept of the beauty myth states that women should be
beautiful, and men should have access to beautiful women. It is the
backlash of second wave feminism to prevent women from gaining power
through groups, and instead keep them pitted against each other. The
beauty myth keeps society so that it is still favored against women, who
are now in constant competition with each other. This ideal image of a
woman is created of women, but not for them as a result of the power
structure. Ultimately, men created the idea of the beauty myth to cause
women to focus more on being in competition than gaining power back from
men.

The beauty myth and pretty privilege go hand in hand with each other.
The beauty myth maintains the idea that women need to be beautiful,
which in turn creates the culture that beautiful women are rewarded.
People are given a leg up in society if they spend time trying to fit
these specific standards. Since they are then viewed as beautiful and
have spent time being in competition with other women, they are rewarded
by society. In the example pertaining to the coffee shop, everybody
involved, including the men, have been conditioned to think women have
to be beautiful. In my personal experience, by not receiving a free
coffee when I was not done up, it spread the idea that I always need to
be perceived as beautiful. The reward of being pretty, in this instance
free coffee, keeps women striving to continue to be better and viewed as
the most beautiful.

Throughout media and public displays, women are not even allowed to be
seen as anything but beautiful. This very public image continues to
spread and cause women to want to be as beautiful as the edited women on
their screen, who have a hair stylist, makeup artist, dietician, and
plastic surgeon to make them look a certain way. The reason women are
only shown in the public eye this way is to perpetuate the beauty myth,
and make sure women are not gaining power. The only way the beauty myth
would be able to cease to exist is if all women recognized the issues
that stem from it, and refused to continue to fall victim to it. By
embracing the fact that all women look different, and there is no right
or wrong way, it would stop the constant competition between women.
However, American society continues to make women victim to the beauty
myth through many different ways, and pretty privilege is only one of
the few that can be seen all throughout our culture.

Even if women were to recognize this and make an effort to combat the
beauty myth. It is so embedded in society that it would be nearly
impossible to completely erase. Between women

who can not seem to let the competition go, or being encouraged to keep
it in place by men, the beauty myth is here to stay. Even though it is
widely known that a person's worth is not placed on how attractive they
are perceived, and beauty is in the eye of the beholder, the beauty myth
has been a persistent part of society since the beginning of second wave
feminism. Subtle pretty privilege is a clear sign of the fact that the
beauty myth is an extremely present part of our western world. Because
of the huge role the beauty myth plays in our society, people's first
line of judgment is frequently how well somebody fits into these beauty
standards. Conventional beauty can play a huge role in how somebody's
life is famed. Whether they get a certain job or opportunity based on
their ability to fit beauty standards can essentially change somebody's
life. The most effective way to combat the beauty myth is to stop
judging somebody because of how they look, but rather who they are as a
person. By doing this, society can put a stop to pretty privilege, and
slowly try to reverse the effects the beauty myth has had.
