Read Beyond The Cover

From a young age most of us were told to "never judge a book by its
cover", but have you ever thought about how realistic that phrase truly
is? Think about the people you surround yourself with. Do your friends
look and dress similarly to you? When you first meet someone, the first
thing you ever analyze whether you notice it or not is how they look.
Especially in relationships, it is easy to say that you do not care
about looks, but at the same time, the first association with another
person only ever starts because you are attracted to something about
them. Judging a book by its cover is inevitable and is simply just the
way our brain is wired to think. This is because as a society we
associate certain aspects and characteristics of a person with different
generalizations. Yes, it is possible to look past this first impression
of a person solely based on how they present themselves, but that first
thought before you even exchange a single word is always going to be
there. There are countless reasons for this, and the main one comes back
to the simple fact that we are all individuals in some way with
different thoughts in which we see things completely different from
others. You can say, "no that's not me", but it is everybody and it is
completely normal. In the society that we live in today where it is
socially accepted to dress, look, and act however you want, this expands
the horizons even greater.

There are not many situations that you will be put in that everyone is
the same. I was fortunate enough to experience one of these environments
and it fully changed my outlook for the better. In November of last year
I enlisted in the Air Force National Guard and shipped off to military
training in the spring for two months. I had never experienced anything
like that and will never experience anything like that ever again. There
is a list of things that you have to make sure happen before you arrive.
Some of these include making sure your hair is a natural color, making
sure you have no nail polish on, packing only black or white
undergarments, not having any jewelry on, and only bringing hair ties
that correspond with the color of your hair. The second you arrive you
are immediately stripped of all personal items such as cell phones,
personal clothing, and personal hygiene products. Everyone was then
given the same uniforms, same hygiene products, the same sneakers, and
the same workout clothes. Females either had to have their hair in a low
ponytail or bun everyday, completely slicked back, and every male had
their head shaved every week. We were then taught to all walk the same,
talk the same, and act to a certain standard which also made us the
same. The drill sergeants completely broke us down out of who we were to
make us who they wanted us to be within the two months that we were
there. Within the first week, every single person was the exact same.

There was very minimal socialization with each other allowed, but that
very little socialization that we could sneak past the drill sergeants
was the only way to find your group of people that you would usually
surround yourself with in the civilian world. You could not judge a
person off of their figure because all of the clothes were long sleeve
and long pants, you could not judge a person off of their tattoos
because the areas in which tattoos are allowed in the military were
covered by the uniform, and you could not judge a person off of
piercings because no one had any in. Every person was to make their bed
the exact same way, eat the same food, roll their socks the same way,
fold their shirts the same way, and have their locker organized the
exact same way. The only thing that gravitated you toward or pushed you
away from a person was the stories they told about their life before the
military. The whole time I was away, we would talk about how much we
couldn't wait to get our phones back at the end to see everyone's social
media and see how they are in the civilian world. This was when I
realized that my whole life there had never been a time that I
surrounded myself with people solely based on their words and the person
they are internally. As I thought back to my friends from home I
realized how we all looked extremely similar, dressed the same, had the
same personalities, and all had the same interests. I realized how my
first thought when meeting people had always been, "they look like
they'd be cool", or "we look like we'd be similar". This was never
intentional, it was just the way that my brain worked, and this was not
just me, my friends would also say things like this out loud all the
time.

I made some very close friends in training, as all we had was each
other. As soon as we graduated and we all waited in different parts of
the airport, starting to part our own ways in smaller groups, me and my
group of friends immediately started finding the social media of the
people we had met. We were once again able to see individuality, and
after 8 weeks of becoming the exact same person and making friends
simply out of our true selves, the conversation immediately brought us
back to exactly where we started. From "oh his instagram is actually
kind of weird" to "i did not picture her to dress like that", the
conversation transitioned to more and more critiques about how the
person portrayed themselves in the civilian world. Although the people
around me started to shift back to thinking like that, I could not see
past these hilarious, genuine, and cool people that I had met in
training, regardless of what their Instagram looked like. Almost a year
later, I still talk to some of these people and have so many memories
with them that I will never have with anyone else. Being isolated with a
certain group of people for months makes you become so close, so fast.

Everyone has their own way of expressing oneself. This means whether it
is the clothes on your body, the things that you own, the activities
that you do, or the way you do your hair and makeup, everyone's goal is
to have people perceive them in a way that shows who they really are.
American philosopher and psychologist, William James, talks about these
concepts deeper. His concept of the material self is related to anything
that can belong to oneself. An example of this is the clothes you own.
How you dress changes how people perceive you. A clearer explanation is
someone who wears all expensive name brand clothing like Gucci and Louis
Vuitton are generally seen as rich and snobby, while someone who wears
worn down shoes and jeans and sweatshirts with holes in them is
generally seen as dirty and poor. His second concept is the social self,
meaning the self that is perceived by other people. This includes your
status and roles seen by others around you. This is easier described as
the idea that usually your friends see you differently than your
teachers who also see you differently than your parents do. The social
self is the idea that different groups of people will have different
ways to describe you, depending on your interactions with them. The
final version of the self is the spiritual self. This is described as
the self that is closest to the person that you are internally. This
involves how you emotionally react to different situations and your
outlook on different parts of your life. If you are a laid back person
that believes you can only do so much to change the path of your life,
you may go by the spiritual outlook of "everything happens for a
reason". Another example is if you are a very religious person, you may
see life from a different perspective such that the Lord is leading what
happens in your life and because of him everything will turn out the way
it is supposed to. The idea of the spiritual self varies greatly
depending on the person and sometimes has to do with the environment in
which the individual was raised. The spiritual self is seen as something
that we are to the core and that generally does not change.

The experiences that I have had are explained by James and due to his
analysis into the self, I am able to further understand each person that
I had created a type of relationship with during my training. All three
of these concepts can be intertwined with my experiences. James's theory
of the social self explains how each person interacted with each other
and the drill sergeants. As James describes, socially we are seen
differently by different groups of people. This was very strongly
proven. Drill sergeants saw us as disciplined, mature, respectful
individuals whose answers were always "yes sir" and "no sir". The other
trainees saw us as one of them; confused, scared, and as a completely
different person behind closed doors when the drill sergeants were not
around. The drill sergeants were not able to see the same people that
our fellow trainees got to see, as we were not allowed to talk or act
the same way in front of them.

Arguably more important however, is the material and spiritual self
theories that align with my experiences. These two theories go hand in
hand with each other, one is your true self, and one depicts the self
that other people see and base your true self off of. In training all we
had was each other\'s true selves and that was the part of each other
that we grew to know and be drawn to. We did not have any material
factor determining our first opinion on eachother, as we were all
exactly materialistically the same. It did not matter where you came
from, how much money you grew up with, whether you shopped at Goodwill
or Gucci, what kind of car you drove, or what kind of house you lived in
because no one had any of it. It was impossible to look at a person and
determine whether they grew up in a house worth \$800,000 or \$100,000,
just like it was impossible to look at a person and determine whether
they drive a thirty year old Honda Civic or if they drive a 2023 Ford
Bronco. The material self simply did not exist, unless you let it exist.
By this I mean unless you talked about what you specifically had and did
not have, no one would have known. The most important version of the
self in my opinion, is the spiritual self. This is the main version of
the self that we were able to base eachother off of and the only full
version of each other that we got to see. There was nothing else to base
your opinion of each person off of other than their personality and who
they really were. You could read a person based on how they reacted to
being disciplined, how they adapted to the completely new environment,
and how they talked to you and the people around you. There were no
outside factors to make your opinion biased one way or the other, and I
truly believe that this was the best way to get to know a group of
people.

After my experience I realized that yes, our lives in the civilian world
are completely different from each other in most cases. However,
completely different lives is what gave us so many stories to tell each
other throughout training. If we all lived similar lives, there would
only be so many stories to tell before things started to get boring. As
impossible as it is to look past the "cover of the book", once you are
given that opportunity to experience complete equality, it changes your
perspective on that "cover". The different aspects that contribute to
how we perceive oneself were completely stripped from us, leaving us
with who we were internally. This is the purest and most understood
version of a person and should be the version that everybody focuses on
in society. Based on James's analysis of the self, I was able to further
understand the different aspects of a person\'s "self" and how my
experiences related to things that he had studied. His analysis made it
easier to understand that there is no one true self, besides the person
we are internally. The person we are varies depending on a variety of
factors that changes an individual\'s perspective on you including
materialistic factors, attitude, and morals. There will never just be
one word or phrase to describe a person, the "self" is so much deeper
than that.
