Relationships Are Everything

How important are the people you surround yourself with? The answer is
quite simple, actually. They are everything. Relationships shape who we
are and influence our very way of thinking. The people around us have a
bigger impact than we think, and it is important that we recognize this.
The ones we love and care about affect us personally and greatly. It is
almost as if they are an extension of ourselves, a part of us. What they
do and say will affect us, whether we like it or not. When we care about
people, their feelings become our own and therefore, have the ability to
drastically change our lives. Following this idea, we also have to
notice how we feel about ourselves. It holds extreme importance because
it ultimately comes from how we think others perceive us. Both
recognizing that the people we love are an extension of ourselves, and
knowing that our perceptions of ourselves are defined by how we think
others see us, are of dire importance in leading a healthy life.

I never really had any strong relationships growing up. I was raised by
a single mother, with random boyfriends, and one fianc√©, coming in and
out of the house over the years. My sister and I were always alone or at
our grandparents. My grandfather was probably my favorite person on
earth when I was younger, and he always made me feel safe and
understood. Sadly, he passed when I was twelve and with his departure,
the only consistent man I ever had in my life was gone. As I grew older,
my sister was the only person on earth I trusted and felt safe with. She
was everything and she still is to this day. I of course had friends in
my childhood, but none ever felt as genuine or natural as I thought they
should have. Admittedly though, I wasn't mature enough to develop them
anyway. I never saw how much I was missing or that my mom's ways of
thinking were so incredibly vicious. I truly didn't pay much attention
to, or take time to notice these sorts of things when I was younger, and
it wasn't until I got older that I realized how much the people in my
life really affected me.

It all started in eighth grade, when I began to think for myself and
discovered some harsh realities. I had recently moved schools and gotten
to an age where I began to question almost everything. My curiosity and
discoveries only increased in high school, and it had an enormous impact
on how I am today. I realized how awful of a parent my mother was and
how my upbringing caused me so many issues. I then became painfully
aware of the fact that I did not have an adult figure in my life that I
trusted and could rely on. This wrecked me the most and it still
tortures me to this day. I had no one to follow as an example, no one to
look up to or reassure me that things would turn out okay. How my mom
thought and acted had slowly been bleeding onto me my entire life and it
horrified me. I was so terrified that I would end up like her,
judgmental and so perfectly unaware of the people around her.

About halfway through high school I found some friends that would
eventually become so much more. They showed me what love was supposed to
look like and that DNA had no significance when I thought of family. I
learned how important strong relationships are and what I had been
missing out on this entire time. When I realized that these people
actually valued me and my opinions, it made me feel more comfortable
with myself. I began to grow with them and I learned how capable of love
I really was. I realized that deep connections with people were
something priceless to me and that I never wanted to live without them.
I will forever be grateful for the lessons they taught me and the impact
they had on my life. I feel whatever they feel and love them as if they
are part of me.

William James explains that one of the constituent parts of the self is
the material self. This includes things that matter to people, like
their house, clothes, and family. The material self is an important
piece in making up the self and envelops all the things a person truly
cares about. An example is how wives often want their husbands to open
up and explain their feelings to them. They do this because they care
about their husbands' feelings as if they are their own. When people are
connected so deeply, they become understood in a way that makes them
part of each other. The material self holds an immense value because it
helps shape people's identity. It claims ownership of what matters to
you and makes that into a special fragment of your life. Ultimately, the
people you love are an extension of yourself.

Charles Cooley takes another similar approach but with something called
the looking glass self. He explains it as the person you see looking
back at you when you stare into a mirror. Our looking glass self is who
we think others see when they are looking at us. This affects us by
creating worry and curiosity. People are constantly concerned with how
others see them. An example is going to a new school and walking into
class for the first time. If the students all have a negative or strange
reaction when they look at you then it will make you feel self-conscious
and wonder what you did wrong. On the other hand, if everyone has a good
reaction to your presence then you are likely to feel comfortable and
content. How others act has a huge impact on us and our ability to be
happy. The way we feel about ourselves comes from how you believe others
perceive you.

My friends and sister are the main part of my material self. They mean
the most to me out of anything on this planet and I do not feel whole
without them. They have become a part of me, an extension of myself, and
have infinitely impacted my personality. I think the way I do because of
them and feel their feelings as if they are my own. I appreciate having
learned about this topic because I always felt as if the people I love
were something more than just friends, but never knew it had a name. The
material self helps look at people and possessions in a new and deeper
way than was capable prior to knowing about it. I love how it considers
relationships as a part of my being rather than something separate. It
brings a greater meaning to the people I love and conveys their endless
value.

With the looking glass self, I can view all of my relationships
differently. Whether it is with friends or family, it still reveals
something that I wouldn't have known before. For my mom and childhood,
it had a more negative impact on how I viewed myself. I had to deal with
constant remarks and judgments from her and many others while growing
up, which led me to have an overall bad perception of myself. I wish I
could hug my younger self sometimes and tell her that it is okay.
Because I thought the majority of people had a bad opinion on my
personality and looks, I started to believe it myself. It wasn't until I
got older and started to be surrounded by caring people, that I realized
how wrong they were about me. My friends loved me for who I was and
enjoyed being in my presence. I formed a better and more loving opinion
of myself because of this, and I try to be patient with my looking glass
self now because she deserves it.

The people we surround ourselves with are extremely important to our
happiness. They shape how we view ourselves and become a part of us. The
connections run deep and do affect our lives greatly. I had a negative
view of myself when I was younger because of how I thought others
perceived me and it would have stayed that way if I never met better
people. I am so thankful to have them as a part of me now and I love
them so. Thankfully as adults we are able to control who we surround
ourselves with. It is so important to keep people close that are genuine
and love you because it affects how you view yourself. Having strong
connections with people holds immense value since they are an extension
of who you are as a person. Relationships are the most beautiful thing
about humans, and they should always be protected and cherished, as they
are part of you.
