> Relationship Standards Through Generations

I have always wondered how we went from women being stay at home wives
to now sharing equal responsibilities with their husbands within the
home. If we were taught anything about gender roles throughout history,
it would be that the men worked on the farm and the women worked inside
of the house. The chores taken on by men would be described as manly or
hard labor. The women have always cared for the hardworking men, but as
the years have gone on, the manual labor required of men in their line
of work has decreased, but the same responsibilities are required of the
women inside of the house.

What has led us to change the responsibilities assumed by the
husband/wife when it has worked for many generations before us? We went
from men and women having distinctly assigned chores to now sharing the
responsibilities. For many years it has worked to have men and women
having separate chores, but households are becoming more modern with
their beliefs of equality.

My grandparents have always been the cutest couple and I have always
aspired to have a relationship like them, until recently. I have started
to pay more attention to their relationship and notice how the double
standards are very unfair. My grandma does the laundry, dishes, grocery
shopping, cooking, and nothing less than wiping his ass. My grandfather
is responsible for the care on the outside of the house and not much
more than that. When I was little, I always thought they were so perfect
together and now I don't understand how my grandma deals with taking
care of a toddler. One night my family and I were at my grandparents\'
house for dinner. My grandma had prepared dinner and set the table while
my grandfather was outside watching football. When it was time for
dinner everyone was called inside, my grandma even prepared a

dinner plate for him. After dinner, my grandma cleaned the kitchen and
did all the dishes without any help from my grandpa.

Back in the 1960's when they got married it was normal for the wife to
be responsible for caring for the home, children, and her husband. The
wife wasn't required to have a job to make a living, and her main job
was inside the home. The stay-at-home spouses had spent their days
cooking, cleaning, and looking after their children. In return, the
husband provided the money to live on and work outside the house. Now in
the modern days it isn't uncommon to see the husband cooking or the wife
having a job outside of the house. The most common healthy relationship
is defined by a 50-50 split between responsibilities and caring for
their children.

Women often have a job to provide additional income and the men assist
with caring for their children. We are all aware of these roles that
take place in our society and how they are generational. As younger
generations form relationships and establish a home there will be a more
equal split of chores.

When I observe the relationship between my parents, I see more of a
split between household chores. My dad assists my mom with cooking and
dishes, while my mom helps with the garden and pulling weeds. There are
still distinct chores that they partake in because they are established
due to our gender. My mom refuses to mow the lawn, mainly because she
was never taught because her father believed it is a man\'s job. My dad
refuses to do laundry, mainly because his mom always did his laundry and
was never taught how to use a washing machine.

What we have learned from our parents and their generations directly
influences how we see our significant others and the responsibilities we
bring to the table in a relationship.

In the doing gender theory, West and Zimmerman describe how our bodies
are an outlet for performing tasks that are "assigned" to us based on
our gender. Doing gender is defined as a

sociological concept that is a process of creating and reinforcing the
differences between boys and girls. We all show our gender based on how
we present ourselves and the way others perceive our presentation like
Zimmerman states. Our bodies are an endless resource for doing gender.
The sociological process is dependent on our gender presentation.
Gendered behaviors are meant to be naturally occurring based on the
gender our body is perceived as; hence our bodies are a resource. Doing
gender plays a huge role in the behaviors we learn.

Hegemonic masculinity described by Connell is a social pattern in which
stereotypical male traits are idealized for how men should act. Men were
always held to a high standard for providing for the family. Hegemonic
masculinity places men in a dominant position within society. This sense
of higher power has been observed through many generations. There are
many characteristics that define the masculine men that society shapes.
These characteristics define the men that have been the ideal head of
the household. Hegemonic masculinity plays a huge role in the division
between men and women because men have always been placed higher on the
societal ladder.

The ideas and theories that I have learned about through SOC 101
explains why the structure of my grandparents\' household works for
their relationship and fts in with their generation. My grandma takes
care of the house, cooks food, and cares for my grandpa because she
learned it from watching her mother. Over the centuries women have
fought for equal rights and to be treated the same as men, but men are
not willing to take over chores that were

"assigned" to women. Due to theories produced by Connell, it shows that
men do not want to take on chores given to women because it would
deviate from their learned behaviors as masculine men. If there was not
so much pressure placed on men by society there might be more

willingness to assist with the "women's chores." This hegemonic
masculinity is contributing to the pushback coming from feminism and
equal rights by men.

This social structure established by West and Zimmerman explains why
there are established chores for men and women around the house and why
they are passed down through generations. Our gender is a direct
correlation to the chores we assume around the house. As a child we
follow around the parent of the same sex and learn their behavior. It is
common to see the daughter in the kitchen helping mom bake cookies, and
the son in the yard helping his dad dig a hole. This also shows why my
dad doesn't know what clothes to not mix in the washer and my mom
doesn't know how to shift the lawn mower (is there a shifter on a lawn
mower?). Men express the doing gender theory which also shows hegemonic
masculinity because men assume the typical male chores and don't deviate
from them. In past generations there was not much consciousness of how
gender affected the way we were raised because there was no chance a boy
would grow up to share equal responsibility of women\'s chores.

When we all look at the difference in relationships between our
grandparents, our parents, and our relationships there is most of the
time a difference in the ratio of chores within the house. As time has
gone on feminism has been a growing topic among American households.
Women have held jobs outside of the household for a while now and the
husbands help around the house more than past generations. Granite now
there are much more diverse households with not just the traditional
wife and husband roles. So, observing the delegation of chores in
relationships is more difficult than in past generations.

Over the centuries women have fought for equal rights and to be treated
the same as men, but men are not willing to take over chores that were
"assigned" to women. Due to theories produced by Connell, it shows that
men do not want to take on chores given to women because it

would deviate from their learned behaviors. If there was not so much
pressure placed on men by society there might be more willingness to
assist with the "women's chores." Looking back at how men were raised
and their standards they are held to by society contribute to the
inequalities. To change the way men feel about equality we must look at
the way they are being raised and the standards that are imposed on
them.
