Role Jeopardy

Everyone has been in an awkward situation. You get caught doing
something wrong, you see a teacher in public, you forget someone's
birthday or say the wrong words to a song. We have all felt it. But
where do these awkward moments come from? It's understood that these
situations just happen and they are unavoidable. You will experience
awkward moments no matter what. Although true, there is an explanation
for these moments. They don't happen randomly, there are reasons for
each one. Goffman argues that each person has roles to perform and when
one does not perform, they create awkward situations. Knowing this, it's
easier to look at the situations you felt awkward in and look for who
was not performing their role correctly.

Your actions in each situation are in turn affecting everyone else\'s
actions. It's these actions and reactions that give people knowledge of
how to act in situations. A person can learn their role in different
scenarios, allowing for situations to run smoothly.

I teach swim lessons as a part-time job in college and love doing it.
Despite the occasional screaming child, most of the kids I teach bring a
smile to my face and make it worth it. On the other hand, the parents
can make or break the lesson. I have had perfectly good children with
controlling or judgemental parents that ruin the whole lesson. My boss
tells me that once I put my instructor shirt on, I have the power. I am
the one controlling the situation because I was trained for that role.
As a swim instructor, my boss encourages me to be confident in whatever
I'm doing because the parents don't know what should be happening.
Therefore if I forgot one little thing, the parents won't know and I
must keep going. Having now been teaching for a few months, I know the
flow and rhythm of the lesson and am confident in my ability to teach.

> Recently, a little 3-year-old girl came in very excited to swim with
> her mother accompanying her.

She started in the pool and did great for the first 10 minutes. The
farther we got, the more she persisted and cried for her mom. The little
girl was crying quite a bit which is something I have dealt with in
lessons and could handle. In response, the mom decided she would change
her role from noninteractive

parent to active teacher. The mom came into the pool and guided the
lesson herself. She decided what would come next and how the child would
do it. The kid continued to scream as the mother attempted to teach her
how to swim with no guidance from me. It was overall a disastrous and
pointless lesson for everyone involved.

In this scenario, I am the instructor. My rash guard says so and my
training and experience also makes that true. My role is to teach. The
kid is the student. Her job was to learn how to swim and focus on that
for an hour. The mother is there to observe which means sitting next to
the pool and watching the lesson take place. Since the child was over
two, the parent is not supposed to get in the pool. With these
expectations in place, it was shocking and uncomfortable when the mother
came into the water and started teaching the child. This led to an
awkward and painfully long lesson. The kid did not learn what she was
supposed to because the mother took over the teaching role with no
knowledge of how to fill that role.

The idea of having a specific role in life was first articulated by
Goffman. Goffman was a sociologist who looked at how social interactions
led to the creation of roles. He explained that every interaction you
have with someone is a performance. When you are on your front stage,
that\'s when you are performing in these interactions. Within these
performances, there is the presence of others which leads to the
creation of roles. You find your role through your interactions with
other performers. In every situation, you must know the definition. All
the performers need to know what type of roles they are playing and the
roles others are playing. Each performer must have a mutual investment
in the other's performances for them to work together. If one performer
looks to undermine others\' roles, the performance will fail.

When someone does not perform their role correctly, embarrassing and
awkward interactions occur. Others' performance can affect yours and
change how you perform your role. For example, if a parent shows up to a
parent-teacher conference in a crop top and rolls their eyes at
everything said by the teacher, there is going to be a level of
awkwardness in that meeting since the parent is not playing the role of
a responsible, caring and attentive adult. The teacher\'s role was
discredited as soon as the parent decided to play a different role. To
have a smooth and positive performance, the correct roles must be

played. It gives everyone involved comfort, allowing them to correctly
perform their role. When someone fails in their role, it not only makes
it awkward but also makes it hard for everyone else to play their role.

When the mother came into the pool, she immediately failed to play her
role and in turn, kept me from performing mine. It was awkward for me as
I did not know how to teach and perform in this scenario. The mother was
embarrassed because her child was screaming and crying which again was
not the role the child was supposed to play. I knew the definition of
the situation I was in and I knew the roles, I, the child, and the
mother were supposed to play because I had done this performance
countless times. This was the mother and child\'s first time in this
performance so even though they knew what performance they were getting
into, they were not aware of how to perform their roles. When the mother
didn\'t play her role, my role as a teacher was discredited and made
insignificant. The mom had no investment in my role and through that,
ruined every other performer\'s role.

When the roles were not played correctly, I had to change my role. The
mom and child came back the next weekend for a second lesson. I was once
again the teacher but went into this lesson knowing what would probably
happen. I was able to change my role and teach the mom how to teach the
child.

This way, I was still the teacher, the kid was being taught and the mom
was an active participant instead of an active teacher. The lesson went
smoother and was much less awkward. For me, learning roles can take a
few tries and I may have to shift my expectations for the situation.
Sometimes, roles do not get played correctly but that doesn't mean
people can't adjust their roles to make it all work. There must be a
mutual working together between all performers to make performances
work.

The roles we play in each situation are ever-changing yet very important
to the performances we take part in every day. Our roles depend on
others and their roles. A smoother interaction occurs when everyone
plays their exact role. When a role is played incorrectly, awkward or
embarrassing situations occur. It throws everyone off, making it hard
for anyone else to play their correct role. So when you encounter an
awkward situation, think about the roles being missed and played. Being
able to recognize this can help you counteract awkward situations by
playing a new version of your role. It\'s an

ever-changing concept that applies to every moment of your life.
