Separation of Race in Schools

Race is a modern concept in the eyes of sociologists. It was invented to
put one group above another and provide a base for diminishing and
demeaning the group it is being used against. Race is based on skin
color and tends to be used as a weapon by the ones with lighter or
fairer skin. This concept was used to justify slavery from the 17^th^
through the 19^th^ centuries. Now it is used to justify discrimination
and separation. In my time, I have witnessed this in every aspect of
society, stemming from school to life in the outside world. This brings
us to the question of whether racism is still around today. An inquiry
based in part on how our ancestors passed down their beliefs, and how
they got instilled into people's brains over time. Yes, the concept of
race and racism is printed into everyone's collective consciousness,
though mostly unnoticed, and still plays a major part in everyday
critical decisions.

A pattern that seems to occur a lot in the United States is a modern
version of segregation. It is not forced segregation, but more of a
voluntary separation that happens because of the imprinted concepts and
ideologies in our minds. Personally, I have noticed this throughout all
aspects of my life, but the most noticeable spot has been in school.
When you walk around school, you tend to see everyone cliqued up with
the people that they hang out with and most of the time they look the
same with similar cultural backgrounds. The collective consciousness is
in some way at fault for this way of living because people of differing
ethnicities have lived separately for the majority of the United States'
existence. This causes static in the growth of society because without
mixing cultures, there will be no advancement towards peace in humanity.

This puzzle starts with the sociological concept of race vs ethnicity.
The definition of race is the categorization of humans that share the
same physical appearance and social qualities. The definition of
ethnicity is belonging to a group of people with the same cultural
background. People tend to mix these two concepts up or think they are
the same thing. The government uses them to categorically divide the
nation by sending out the census where you are required to lay claim to
a certain race and ethnicity. This makes it possible to put certain
cultural groups to be above others in the social aspect. This leads to
things such as workplace discrimination and residential segregation.

This residential segregation tends to divide the youth which as time
goes on, grows and keeps people separate. As it says in an article by
Think "Racial residential segregation in the United States is the
mechanism by which people are sorted into neighborhoods and communities
that offer opportunity and deny it." This tends to mean that people of
color in the lower or middle class usually reside in lower-opportunity
areas (Think). While middle-class white families are able to live in
better neighborhoods. Bringing them more and better opportunities in
life. This separates us in many ways as people go to different churches
and schools and play sports in different places. This just starts the
segregation between races because you make acquaintances and friends
that you stick with for the rest of your life.

Devah Pager did a study on the hiring process discrimination. It showed
many ways how jobs and managers treated and responded to different
cultural groups when trying to obtain a job. The people who applied to
these jobs all had the same resume, background, and social and
communication skills. The research conducted that white interviewees
were twice as likely to have a positive response from the job as a black
interviewee and 5% more likely than a Latino interviewee. Similar
results happened when people with felonies applied. White felons were 2%
more likely to get a positive response than Latinos and 4% more likely
than black felons. This is known as subtle discrimination as it is
printed into everyone's collective consciousness to have certain biases
and prejudices that often go unnoticed even by the person doing them. It
is the result of years of racism trickling down through society over
time, making it impossible for anyone to not have a drop of racism in
their mind.

Racism has been a part of the United States since the founding of the
country. The concept of the matrix of domination, explains that white
supremacy, patriarchy, and capitalism all work together to reinforce
each other. From the beginning of the country, the rich white slave
owners were building their wealth and power while the black people were
being held as slaves, making it impossible to grow wealth and status.
The power elite holds the economic power in America and uses this power
to exploit the marginalized communities that don't have access to good
economic opportunities. They also held the power to exclude minorities
and marginalized groups from getting good access to healthcare and
education.

My experience with seeing the separation of races throughout society and
specifically in school really didn't make me think much at the time. But
these concepts we go over in class opened my eyes to the causes and
repercussions of this separation. The concept of race gives people an
excuse to degrade another group of people that don't fit the same
physical image and social concepts as them. The way the government uses
race and ethnicity to segregate the people of the nation through
residency, access to needs like education and healthcare, and workplace
discrimination. Systemic racism plays a huge part in many people's
lives, and it is important to find the roots of these problems. Finding
the roots is the only way to find a solution.

The nation is in a split and it goes back to way before any of us were
born. The teachings and ideologies of our ancestors have been passed
down and imprinted in our minds. This is a case of collective
consciousness working against the people of the world. It is the fact
that everyone has an underlying way of thinking that is not even noticed
by the person thinking most of the time. This is how the youth becomes
divided and continues to grow apart as they get older. Concepts like
race, and ethnicity, and how sociologists view and research them show us
how racism and discrimination run our system here in the United States.
The youth of this country need to use this knowledge and listen to the
older generation to see where they messed up and how we can fix it. With
the way society is now our generation is on a path to finally overcoming
racism. Youth nowadays are gaining an awareness of racism that hasn't
been seen yet, on top of the awareness youth today are stepping up and
protesting and speaking out on racism. Instead of sitting around and
talking about what problems are occurring people are stepping up and
fixing the world one problem at a time.

Work Cited

Collins, Patrica. "Matrix of Domination." *Wikipedia*, Wikimedia
Foundation, 3 Sept. 2014,
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matrix_of_Domination.

Western, Bruce. "The Inspiring Life and Career of Devah Pager." *The
Marshall Project*, The Marshall Project, 14 Nov. 2018,
https://www.themarshallproject.org/2018/11/13/the-inspiring-life-and-career-of-devah-pager#:\~:text=Conducting%20the%20experiment%20in%20Milwaukee,rate%20was%20only%2017%20percent.

Menendian, Stephen. "Opinion \| Why Neighborhoods Are More Segregated
Now than They Were a Generation Ago." *NBCNews.com*, NBCUniversal News
Group,
https://www.nbcnews.com/think/opinion/u-s-neighborhoods-are-more-segregated-generation-ago-perpetuating-racial-ncna1276372.

Omi, M. *Racial Formations*.
