Sexist Stereotypes in Capitalism

American capitalism is an unfair system that perpetuates sexist
stereotypes through biased marketing techniques and gendered job
channeling. Although we like to think society has come a long way from
pre-women's suffrage and first-wave feminism, sexism continues to
pervade our capitalist economic system and institutions. Economic
practices that sustain sexism include the portrayal of gendered roles
through advertisements as well as pushing feminine presenting people
towards roles that require emotional labor. Despite continuously working
towards equality, capitalism continues to encourage its audience to
participate in stereotypes that continue to harm both producers and
consumers.

It is not a stretch to say that almost every woman encounters sexism on
a daily basis, this can look like unwanted sexual advances made by
others, comments made about their appearance, or receiving different
treatment than a man in a workplace or education institution.
Historically, the United States appears to have waged a war against
sexism and pushed for gender equality, and yet, we have still not
reached true equality. The driving force behind the reproduction of
sexism or gender prejudice in America is the system and structure of
capitalism. Our economic system relies on competition and maximizing
profits through whatever means necessary, even when that means
encouraging antiquated practices or promoting outdated beliefs. One of
the most common ways that sexism can be seen in capitalism is through
the representation of women in advertisements. Some commonly seen
stereotypes include women being found in kitchens, cleaning, or even
simply being objectified. According to a New York Times article, in the
late 1990s and early 2000s, commercials showed women in

workplace settings less than 5% of the time, which is even more
disturbing considering that in the marketing sector, more than 70% of
creative directors are men. This means that men in positions of power
are actively choosing to portray women fulfilling sexist stereotypes in
order to achieve their goal of selling products. So, because these
advertisements are viewed by millions of people, these portrayals are a
seemingly accepted form of sexism that influences an extreme number of
people, therefore keeping sexism alive in the name of making money.

As a woman and a participant of a capitalist society, I have experienced
advertisements such as these and have been influenced by them. In my
experience, advertisements that promote fragrances commonly portray
women in a sexual manner, decorating their fragrance bottles in pink
flowers and gracefully presenting the product to the viewer. These
models are typically in very little clothes, showing their audience that
the fragrance will help them appear sensual and attractive to others. In
contrast to women's fragrance commercials, men's fragrance commercials
typically depict men in considerably more clothes and acting out
lifestyle scenes rather than trying to appear sexually attractive.
Growing up watching commercials like these definitely influenced the way
I perceive my worth. Sexist commercials taught me that as a woman, I
should aspire to be the most beautiful, elegant person I can be, and
then I will be valued. Men are taught that they should be confident,
cool, and powerful through the actions of models in commercials. Part of
growing up and finally recognizing how marketing has affected me is
de-influencing myself and working towards changing my perception of
self-worth until it aligns with my true worth and not what value
capitalism places on me based on my gender alone.

In "Doing Gender", the author postulates that "doing gender" means
fulfilling the expectations that the collective consciousness has placed
on a certain gender. For example, collective consciousness decided that
in social situations women are supposed to be welcoming, curious, and
always gracious. They should want to go to college, and have a career
but ultimately want to have children and create a family, even if that
means sacrificing their other goals. According to society, women should
invest in their appearance because that is their greatest asset. As a
woman, doing gender means trying to fulfill those expectations, and
spending a lot of money and time on your appearance because people will
like you and respect you if you fit into their beauty standards. For
instance, buying a fragrance that will make you sexy because doing
gender as a woman means doing everything you can to fulfill the male
gaze. In relation to advertisements, doing gender means observing models
and beliefs you are presented with and learning how to fulfill gender
norms through those advertisements. This is why sexist advertisements
are so harmful. We learn how to do everything by watching other humans,
which means creative directors of marketing agencies hold the power to
influence our perception of how we should behave as men or women or any
other gender. When we decide to change how we do gender, we must first
change how we view different genders and to do that we have to stop
allowing companies to perpetuate sexist stereotypes through
advertisements.

In addition to sexism through advertisements, job channeling based on
gender is a practice that although may be subconscious, encourages
stereotypes about women that are untrue. Job channeling is defined as a
process by which minority applicants are steered toward particular job
types. Job channeling is known to be mostly based on

race, but I think that it can be applied based on gender as well. A
stereotype that is often used to justify work-related discrimination is
that women are biologically more inclined to be emotional, meaning they
should be in roles that require emotional labor. Jobs that require
emotional labor include teachers, childcare workers, wait staff, and
social workers. According to one study, about 75% of teachers are women
and 88% of childcare workers are women. This data is concrete evidence
that women are dominating industries in which emotional labor plays a
big part. Is it possible to measure the discrimination in these fields?
Or to prove that women are channeled towards these jobs because of
stereotypes? Without studies being conducted, the only way to understand
how gender-based discrimination influences job channeling is to listen
to people who have experienced it.

I work at an after-school program for elementary school students where
the average student is in my care for 15-20 hours a week. My job
requires me to watch over these students which includes mitigating
conflict between kids, communicating with parents when issues arise, and
helping kids to learn how to make good choices. I work with six women of
various ages ranging from eighteen to seventy-five and one

nineteen-year-old man. During the summer, I work at a summer camp with
the same demographic of kids and work with about twenty women and two
men. Then, I work at a church nursery on Sundays where I work with five
women and no men. The pattern here is obvious, my jobs are all
childcare, require emotional labor, and employ mostly women. Is this
explainable? In my opinion, this is explained by my employer\'s
subconscious tendency to encourage women to take these jobs rather than
seeking a diverse array of employees. When I interviewed for this job,
the interviewer asked me

maybe two questions, glanced at my resume, and then decided I was
qualified for the job. In contrast, when my male friend applied for the
same job a few months later, he was asked at least 8 questions and had
to go into detail about any experience he had working in childcare. The
only difference between myself and my friend that would influence the
interviewer's opinion is gender. In addition to this instance, I have
worked with a variety of coworkers over a period of two years and about
half of them have had no experience working with children and were
eventually reported to my boss for their treatment of the kids and
parents. This supports my theory that the women my boss hired were
subconsciously trusted more because they were perceived to be naturally
inclined to work with children. This unknowing participation in the
belief of sexist stereotypes was harmful because the women who were
hired ended up treating the kids in a detrimental way, which could have
been avoided if my boss had looked into their lack of childcare
experience and made her hiring decisions based on genuine
qualifications. I believe that the opinion that women are biologically
better at working with kids or dealing with emotions, has caused the
lack of men in the childcare industry and confined women to jobs that
they may not actually be able to succeed in. In addition to this
gendered job channeling, the jobs that women are steered towards (that
require emotional labor) have significantly lower salaries than other
industries because of the belief that women are naturally suited to
emotional labor so therefore, their jobs are easy. Overall, this whole
process of job channeling, from start to finish, is something that needs
to be studied and eradicated as it is holding back women across the
world.

In the Pager Discrimination Study, an experiment was conducted to
observe racial discrimination in the low-wage labor market, with results
finding that people of

color are less likely to get callbacks for jobs than white people
applying with the same qualifications. The research showed that
companies are less willing to hire minority applicants because they are
viewed as unreliable or untrustworthy. Similar to my idea that
interviewers are affected by sexist stereotypes, this study found
evidence that interviewees are biased against minorities in the job
market because they believe in racist stereotypes. The authors describe
the racially coded job channeling they observed as a process that steers
minority applicants to specific jobs that require manual labor and less
contact with customers. My experience and observations at my job
parallel the findings of this study (to a much smaller degree), where
job applicants are unfairly judged based on stereotypes perpetuated by
the interviewers and their employers. Pager's study narrates the process
of racial job channeling in which applicants applied for a certain
position but were then encouraged to apply for an alternative position
where they had less contact with customers or required manual labor.
This contrasts with my theory of gendered job channeling because I
believe that gendered job channeling is experienced on a societal level,
where outside influences teach women to seek specific jobs. In my
experience, sexism pervades every aspect of life and teaches our
population what their gender requires of them, including what jobs they
are suited for. Similarly to Pager's Discrimination Study, my
observations found that job channeling is experienced by women,
specifically in childcare, and is a negative experience for the people
applying for the jobs, as well as those affected by those jobs (the
students I work with).

In conclusion, American capitalism continues to allow sexism to exist
and reproduce through its institutions and promotes behaviors that
negatively affect women.

Marketing tactics portray women in a sexist light, enforcing stereotypes
about their sexuality and value in the eyes of capitalist consumers.
According to the author of "Doing Gender", we learn expected gendered
behavior through observations of other humans, which means that sexism
within marketing practices can influence consumers\' view of themselves
and teach them to perceive their value through unrealistic gender norms.
I grew up in this society, where I consumed advertisements that taught
me my worth was in my appearance, or sexuality while men are valued
simply for existing. In addition, capitalism continues to treat women in
a biased way based on antiquated gender stereotypes through gendered job
channeling. Both of these things combined are proof that our continued
work toward gender equality has not eliminated sexism, especially
throughout capitalism. This should be a wake-up call for us, we have to
continue to study the sexism of capitalism to find a way to destroy it.
By performing studies like the Pager Discrimination Study, data can be
gathered to support this argument and prove that work needs to be done
for us to finally reach the equality we claim to want. Overall,
sociological concepts can be used to prove the presence of sexism, and
inequality, within capitalism and find ways to fight these practices
that seek to demote women.
