> Silenced in Science Class

It is no secret that systemic racism and sexism are deep seeded systems
of oppression that plague American society. Neither black, color, nor
woman are mentioned in the United States Constitution. As time
progressed, egalitarian movements occurred as a result of awareness of
oppression. These movements are still present today, as equality has not
been achieved. While policies and initiatives have changed over time in
a positive way to benefit issues of sexism and racism, the consequences
of systems that founded America's foundation are still seen and felt.

Women and people of color are subjected to a system that is not built
for them. Through beauty standards, stereotypes, and cultural norms,
they are judged on appearances. They are not judged for intellectual
capabilities and qualifications.

For my first two years of high school, I lived in the diverse and
blue-collar town of Cedar Rapids, Iowa. The demographics of my school
were proportional to the diverse composition of the community. However,
diversity within the school was not evident in all classrooms. As an
Advanced Placement (AP) student, I was surrounded by white
upperclassmen. During my sophomore year, I was enrolled in five AP
classes. Two were English, two were science, and one was history. While
boys dominated populations of AP classes, so did white people; even more
so than the number of boy students over girls. There was a total of four
people of color in my classes, collectively.

In my AP Biology class, I was one of three girls. The other two girls in
the class were juniors, while I was only a sophomore. I enjoyed science.
I was good at it. In eighth grade, I was in a program with only twenty
other middle school students from around the entire county that allowed
us to take honors biology at our future high school. Following eighth
grade, I took honors chemistry and honors environmental science during
my freshman year. With that said, I

was on track to take AP Biology my sophomore year if I so chose. In my
AP Biology class, I was surrounded by boys that were in my classes
before. I was just as qualified to take the class as they were. Despite
my qualifications; in labs and during group work, my male classmates
assumed that I was incompetent by the way that I looked. On lab days, I
drug my feet to class. I knew that when I got there, my voice and ideas
would be disregarded. It made my stomach churn with anxiety walking to
fifth period each day.

I am fairly adjacent to the American beauty standard. I am a white and
feminine presenting girl with blue eyes, long hair, and on the thinner
side. My uniform of choice in high school was light-colored dresses and
skirts. I was not expected to know much, especially in high-level
science classes.

It was exhausting to be micromanaged and hovered like helicopters by
boys whose unflagging efforts inferred they knew more than me. It did
not matter that I had higher test scores and performed better than them
on individual assignments. I still was ignored.

Naturally, I grew impatient and frustrated as the classes went on. My
ideas were immediately discarded and I felt belittled. My indignation
fueled me to perform. If my voice was ignored, I figured that my
performance could speak louder. I worked even harder than before to
break class exam curves in silence.

One day, we were given a lab about osmosis. We worked in pairs instead
of the typical group. In an attempt to motivate us, our teacher made the
lab a competition. The goal was to create the most precise solution that
would cause a potato wedge to shrink to a specific weight. The potato
wedge that was closest to the given weight at the conclusion of the
experiment would be awarded extra credit. I intentionally chose a
partner who took advantage of social loafing. I was familiar with him. I
worked in lab groups with him before. He never put in the effort and

would likely not be upset if I took the lead. I took advantage of that
observation. It was easier for me to convince one person to let me take
the lead than four boys who were academically driven and put in effort
to classes. I made sure to stay extra focused in this lab, in hopes of
finally being taken seriously by not only my male classmates but my male
teacher. The next day, we measured and compared the results. When the
results of my lab were evaluated, the boys in the class were visibly
surprised. They asked my teacher to weigh it again, assuming my results
were fabricated. After the results were examined and evaluated multiple
times, it was clear. The results of the lab granted my partner and me
extra credit. While the boys in the class were surprised, they grew even
more defensive. I continued to work hard, in the constant struggle of
the dismaying, ceaseless, and eventually mind-numbing cycle of sexism in
the classroom.

While I was undermined by my classmates and my teacher because of my
sex, I did not experience the barrier of my race. I knew subconsciously
before I even began the class that my race would be represented.

I was able to speak up to boys in my class without implicit and
explicitly expressed biases about my race that stood against me. While
all of my sophomore-year teachers were men, they were white men. Their
skin color was the same as mine. They did not make negative assumptions
about my intelligence and work ethic according to the color of my skin.
When I spoke up in class, I was perceived and assumed to be a sensitive
baby, not aggressive and malicious. The diversity of the school
community was not represented in my AP classes.

Although AP classes prepared me for academic challenges, they did
nothing to develop my social and cultural awareness. The ringing of the
bell indicated it was time to change class periods. The hallway traffic
was the only time of day when I could see a representation of the
diversity in my school.

Peggy McIntosh explained the concept of an invisible knapsack, a
metaphor that addressed how white people have unearned assets and
advantages that they are born with. It is invisible because white people
are not required to think about it. They just have it. She gave examples
of white privilege in daily life; including that she, "Can speak in
public to a powerful male group without putting her race on trial." And,
"Being sure that her children would be given curricular materials that
testified to the existence of their race." I have an invisible knapsack.
It is filled with tools of hidden benefits from the color of my skin. I
carry it with me wherever I go, without even thinking about it. My
invisible knapsack gives me benefits that thrive off of a system that
harms people who are not white. I will never experience the ways in
which the invisible knapsack harms people of color.

> In addition, McIntosh noticed other forms of oppression in her work in
> Women's Studies.

In her research, she noticed how men fail to acknowledge that they are
over-privileged. While men might say that women are disadvantaged, they
deny taboos and details on their male privilege. They are unwilling to
address them. The boys in my classes were educated individuals. They
were likely aware of the terms sexism and male privilege but did not
acknowledge their privileges in their actions. The boys in my class
correlate with McIntosh's observations that their denial of their
dominant position and unearned advantages protect male privilege.
McIntosh understands that male privilege is unconsciously oppressive, so
she concludes that unacknowledged privilege is unconscious oppression.

Naomi Wolf's ideas on the beauty myth tie into Peggy McIntosh's
observations of male privilege and white privilege. The beauty myth is a
cycle of reaching to obtain an unrealistic societal beauty standard.
Beauty standards have pushed women into a box. Women are subjected to
being objects, rather than people with intellectual capabilities. In my
class, I was not seen as a

person with intellectual capabilities. Being adjacent to the beauty
standard as a feminine presenting woman put me in a box. I was
automatically assumed to be incompetent. The beauty myth keeps men in a
position of domination. It is an effect of institutions and systems
created by men, keeping them in control and power.

While policies and movements are slowly moving in the right direction,
it does not change the fact that America's foundation has elements of
racism and sexism. If institutions and systems are left unchanged, the
oppression will continue. If we do not collectively acknowledge our
privileges, we will continue to encourage an oppressive system. We must
keep educating ourselves and use our positions of privilege to uplift
the voices that have been silenced.
