Small Businesses in America

Does the success of starting a small business vary if it is created by a
woman instead of a man? On average in America, 4.4 million businesses
are started every year. Of all the small businesses created, only 30% of
new businesses survive beyond 10 years. Not only have there always been
many entrepreneurs in the world, but the number of new entrepreneurs
each year continues to grow. More individuals want to stay home and work
to spend more time with family, and many just like the thought of being
self-employed and having the freedom to work on their own time. Those
same individuals tend to go on to create (or at least attempt to create)
their own company and try to make it succeed. But in reality, being an
entrepreneur doesn't always tend to go in the way you want.

Women have always been on the lower end of the spectrum when it comes to
being compensated and being seen as fully capable of being able to
withstand the creation and running of a brand-new company. Contrary to
what many might believe, more females tend to begin their own business
ventures and try to build up their own companies from scratch. The only
problem with this is the fact that men still tend to succeed more with
the continuation of their companies, even though there are much less of
them.

Ever since I was 10, my dad has been creating small businesses. My mom
worked from home and would always assist him in accomplishing any small
business idea he had. Over 6 years, he had created multiple small
businesses, many of which became extremely successful and still serve
our hometown today with their services. Those entrepreneurial ideas and
the "business mindset" influenced me to create my own small business. I
was in middle school and decided I wanted to follow in his footsteps. My
ideas of creating custom shirts and hoodies soon turned into a very
large interest across my middle school when I started advertising to my
teachers and the students. I began to collect orders and realized this
was something I could rapidly grow and possibly pursue for a very long
time. I finished middle school with a huge order making shirts for the
Special Olympics that all the students and volunteers involved would be
wearing. As time progressed, I received more and more orders and began
to sell on the online platform. I had a website, social media, and so
many local connections that it seemed like the orders were nonstop. Of
course, there were waves when I didn't have any orders or interest in
new products, but that didn't stop me.

Fast forward to my senior year of high school, I was doing orders for my
brother\'s baseball team, and other small businesses across multiple
parts of the state. I had orders shipping to large countries outside of
the US and felt like I was finally back in my groove. Around this time
is also when I picked up a camera and started taking pictures of my
friends and people I knew for free. That passion soon turned into
another business venture as I began my second small business, while
still being fully involved in the other one. I began taking on paid
clients after only doing a few free shoots, and my name started to grow.
Just like my other business, I was getting loads of inquiries and
interest in my services. To this day, I still run both businesses, with
my first one being primarily through my online platform, and my
photography business being run both here in Wilmington, and also in my
hometown near Raleigh.

Small businesses are not an easy thing to start up and build from
scratch, much less if you're a teenager/young adult, and much harder,
being a female. On average, women earned an average of 17% less than men
in 2022, and the gender gap in monthly wages continues to widen as women
age. Some may think that this statistic has nothing to do with "starting
a small business" but when you compare the success rates and horror
stories between men and women starting a company, I say it plays a
pretty large role. Not only does it show that women tend to start more
companies, but somehow, men seem to be able to keep those companies
going for longer periods of time and have more success. Why is this
though? There are many theories as to why men are more successful in
this day and age when it comes to the business and job world, but
overall, it just seems like everything goes back to gender and equality
roles.

Feminism is an ever-going topic that seems to never makes its
disappearance in society. It is defined as the political movement about
the experience of being a woman in a patriarchal system. This idea
started due to the male collective consciousness in men-ruing
institutions and women not agreeing with the fact they had hardly any
say or part in this system. R.W. Connell coined the term "hegemonic
masculinity" ultimately describing the traits that define a man's
position in society. Men are seen as the dominant, money-making people
of the typical household, and the roles that come with it. Similar to
this, BG Stroudt gave the example of the boys at Rockport and their
version of "locker room culture" and how it relates to their success in
the future from being raised at such a standard (Stroudt "In or Out").
This idea that men are the highest, most successful individuals in
society is the primary reason that most small businesses seem to be
primarily by men. It reproduces the value of women, and how minute of a
change there had been over the years. The higher-ups that would
ultimately assist these small businesses as they grow tend to also be
primarily male-filled positions.

As time has progressed, of course, there have been huge advancements in
both technology and the systems that help in the creation of small
businesses, but the overall idea behind them of a patriarchal system has
not changed. Yes, women have gained more power and have climbed in
positional power in some companies but starting one hasn't seemed to
quite work the same. Both genders may have identical roles in a company,
but men still seem to get paid over 20 cents more an hour than women. To
me, this gender gap doesn't even seem to be close to closing, and the
difference between success stories is pretty absurd.

As someone who has had personal experience with creating a small
business from an independent idea from scratch and trying to grow and be
successful in a male-dominated environment, it is very difficult. Doing
research on this topic just solidifies the idea that men are still in
control of more aspects of our economic system and society than we
think, and the results that many women are seeing from their production
of a small business are truly heartbreaking. In comparison to men, the
amount of small businesses created by women that must shut down per year
is astronomically larger. As time goes on, I feel as if these roles
should shift a little bit. More women in the workplace get to pursue
their dreams of becoming an entrepreneur while also working alongside
men, earning the exact same amount to further their business ventures.
Feminism is still in full gear, and I truly believe that one day we will
be able to say "women are just as successful" in the entrepreneurship
world.
