1011

SOC-105-007

Social Media and The Beauty Myth

Have you ever wondered how the "beauty myth" affects young women in
today's society? First, it should be known what the "beauty myth" is.
The "beauty myth" is a term coined by Naomi Wolf in her book that she
wrote. It can be described as an ideal image of women but not exactly
for women. It results from the Power Structure. Power Structures are
beauty standards created by men to subordinate women. It was also
created to replace certain myths around domesticity. In western society,
the "beauty myth" can be seen everywhere, especially with heavy
influence through social media. Social media platforms such as, TikTok,
Instagram, and Twitter are flooded with videos and images of beautiful
women who fit into the "normal" standard when it comes to looks and
beauty. With the "beauty myth" being heavy in today's society, it is
important to understand where this comes from, who it affects, and the
negative effects that come along with it.

Many women are, and most likely will always be, immediately judged based
off their physical appearance. This causes an immense amount of pressure
that begins to take a toll on women's social, mental, and emotional
wellbeing. To start, I am 22-year-old women living in today's society,
where technology and social media use are at an all time high. With
these great inventions unfortunately brings great consequences as well.
I have grown up with technology and social media and I have come to
realize that it is not the healthiest for me. I have always struggled
with fearing I do not live up to standards of beauty and never will. For
me, this has always caused some sort of depression and anxiety, that
truly does stem from my physical appearance. It may sound clich√©,
because a lot of people I know struggle with these issues, but it is
something that affects my everyday life, and has for years now. Before
taking this class, I did not know that there was such thing as the
"beauty myth," but after learning more about it, I realized how
prevalent it is today, especially with the effects of social media. I,
like most people my age, have TikTok and Instagram. I am constantly
seeing beautiful women who fit into this beauty standards, but it is
hard to separate fake social media filters and reality. The constant
exposure I see to this sort of content makes it hard for me to feel
confident in myself. I also have a younger sister who is almost 15 years
old. I am starting to see some potentially damaging effects that social
media has on her and her young friends. I'm sure that these girls feel
similarly to how I feel; much pressure to conform to these unrealistic
expectations of society. I fear that they will struggle with the same
issues I struggle with. These unrealistic expectations can lead to very
serious issues such as body dysmorphia, eating disorders, very low
self-esteem, anxiety, and depression.

In an attempt to not let myself fall into the trap of social media and
the "beauty myth," I have tried to distract myself with different
things. I have put limits on my social media, to try to limit the amount
of time spent on it. I also surround myself with positive people, such
as my family and friends. It is important to take care of your own
mental health before you worry about anything else. On the contrary,
social media has some potential positive aspects to beauty stands that
could help young women know their worth and not worry about fitting into
the unrealistic standards of beauty in today's society. When Naomi Wolf
wrote her book, it was published in the 1990s, a time before the
expansion of social media. Today, women are trying to crush the "beauty
myth" using social media. For example, there are a lot of "body
positive" movements that encourage young women to be comfortable in
their own bodies. Many of these advocates use social media to show the
many representations beauty has to offer. This in turn, can lead to
self-love, healing, and help.

Now, is there a "beauty myth" for men, even though it was created by
them? The short answer is no, not necessarily. Men are held to a certain
standard, but not a certain "myth" or physical standard. For example,
men are not supposed to show emotion because this can lead to people
thinking of them as weak, but they are expected to be the leader of the
household and be strong. A lot of times, if men show emotions, it is
considered feminine, but recently, society has started to stray away for
this idea. These stereotypes cause men to become subject to toxic
masculinity. The term "toxic masculinity" can also be known as hegemonic
masculinity, where hegemonic means dominant. This is a legitimate male
role in Western society, and it is a practice for men to show
superiority against other men and women. Men have intangible standards
whereas women have physical standards. This idea of toxic masculinity
encourages men to stay cold and dominant to focus on success and
prosperity. Women could be considered "property" to them, or it may be
encouraging men to possess women. This idea then leads more into the
idea of men having power over women, therefore oppressing women even
further.

Throughout Naomi Wolf's book, she explains and provides many examples as
to why and how women are judge based on the "beauty myth." She begins to
explain how this myth is composed of emotional distance, politics,
finance, and sexual repression. To further explain the point of
oppression with women, she states that the beauty myth isn't about women
at all. It is all about men and the institutional power they hold.
Western women have always been controlled by ideas and material
stereotypes, but I feel that as social media usage has increased, the
"beauty myth" and transformed it. In this perspective, I feel that the
"beauty myth" is still prevalent, if not more, but with the emergence of
social media, it may be transforming into a beauty myth that is being
reinforced by other women. As much as I hate to admit it, the first
thing I tend to notice about a person, especially other women, is there
physical beauty and appearance. I think the notion of the "beauty myth"
changes a little here because I am not looking to have power over other
people, I am simply comparing myself to them. I think this is a natural
thing that all people are subject to do.

After looking and exploring through a different lens and writing about
my own experiences with social media and the "beauty myth," I quickly
realized that the emergence of social media has increased my negative
implications of the "beauty myth." With the unrealistic societal
expectations, it is hard to be confident in myself, especially when
every time I open a social media app, I am bombarded with beautiful with
who are "societally beautiful." I do think that Naomi Wolf's idea of the
beauty myth has transformed and changed with society. I think that this
myth was started by men to have power over women, and I still believe
that is the case, but I also believe that this myth is being enforced by
other women as well. I don't think it is trying to be forced in a
negative way, but many women are trying to fit into societal norms to
fit in with society. This idea of the "beauty myth" pins women against
each other in a competitive way, when actually, women need to encourage
other women and stand up to the men that oppress them. Social media is a
part of life now, and it always will be, so it is important that we find
effective ways to keep our generation and generations to come in a
positive mindset, so they know that they should not fall into societies
trap of "the beauty myth."
