**Social Media and Its Negative Impact on Teens and their Identities**

As social media has developed, it has become easily available to anyone
with access to smart devices. As these devices become more popular and
more accessible, teenagers have the ability to engage with social media
frequently. What does this mean for teens and the role they play in
society? How does it change how teens perceive themselves, and what does
it do for their sense of identity? Social networking causes many issues
for teenagers, and it disrupts the roles they play in society. Social
media may have some benefits because news and media are so easily
accessible, but overall it can be very destructive for anyone who uses
it, especially young adults. There are multiple concepts that have been
researched that show how social media has many negative impacts on
teenagers. Throughout this paper I will discuss how social media creates
cyberbullying, introduces distorted concepts of reality, how social
media determines self-worth, and how social media disrupts teenagers'
sense of identity.

In class, we discussed Goffman and his idea that we all play a specific
role in society, and we play these roles like "actors". There is a front
stage and a back stage, and on the front stage is where people play
their specific roles. Everyone has a specific role, and everyone
involved in the act knows the roles that others play from defining the
situation. People may define the situation somewhat different, but the
overall role that the person plays should be understood by everyone
involved. But what does this mean for engagements between people online?
Online, there is no front stage or back stage. People get to choose the
role they play. This can mean many things, and most of them are not
necessarily good.

The idea that people can be whoever they want online means that they can
pick and choose the way that they "act" or in this case, post. This is
especially dangerous for teens. Because social networking is still
growing, and it is relatively new technology, it is difficult for people
to understand the way it works. Being behind a screen and not having to
worry about immediate consequences to actions can be very destructive
for everyone online, and the most important thing is that even if you
delete it, it is never permanently gone. The post is still able to be
tracked, and it is not just professionals who have access to it. Also,
anyone who has seen the post already, even if the account is 'private',
can screenshot and share the post with people who may not follow the
account (Homayoun 2017). This shows that without explanation of who can
actually view what is shared online, teens may misunderstand that what
they post may not be as private as they think. Unless they fully read
the social networking sites privacy policy, they may not understand who
can access their information. Moreover, people can hack into a networks
server, and they may gain access to sensitive information.

This concept is very important for young adults to understand, but it
has something that not all teenagers have come to terms with. Teenagers
often post things online that they would never say in person, and it is
easy for them to do this because they are not in a real-life social
setting. There are no immediate consequences to their actions, and there
is no one directly in front of them that their actions affect the second
they say something they should not have said. Also, their online profile
could have a different name on it that is not their real name, so it
easier for them to say things they would not normally say if someone
knew who it was. According to Dr. Donna Wick during an interview, "Kids
text all sorts of things they would never in a million years contemplate
saying to anyone's face (Ehmke)." This concept leads to cyberbullying,
which is very destructive for teens overall sense of self for the person
being bullied, and the person doing the bullying. Overall, social media
has made it easier for teens to spread rumors and use blackmail against
others (Gaitho 2018). For the person who is being bullied, it hurts
their perception of self and they may become negative towards
themselves, and they may develop depression symptoms (Ehmke). For the
person who is doing the bullying, it is damaging to their sense of self
because likely the reason they are bullying in the first place is
because they have low self-esteem. Cyberbullying is harmful for all
people involved, and it is especially harmful to the identities and self
esteem of the person being cyberbullied.

Another serious example of this concept of doing things online that can
impede on future endeavors and damage a person's reputation is the
students who recently got their acceptance offers revoked. The students
were accepted into Harvard, after sharing obscene 'memes' in "private"
group chat on Facebook, their acceptance offers were revoked. The posts
that the potential students were making in the group chat were vulgar
and revolting, and though they were not immediately affected by it,
after someone important found out, they had one of the most important
steps of their lives taken away from them, and it was their own fault
(Homayoun 2017). Since social networking takes away the front and back
stage, the students were acting in a way they should not have, and
everyone in the chat with them was able to view the messages they were
sending in the chat. Social media pressures young adults to share
sensitive personal information online. It is so easy for someone to
simply screenshot the chat of a person saying or doing something
inappropriate, and it can ruin a person's life. Teenagers who have a
misunderstanding of social media and smart devices have a faulty sense
of privacy, and it can be detrimental to their futures. They may not be
able to achieve their goals because of something they previously posted
online. It is easy for teenagers to post things like this online because
they want to fit it. They want to do whatever it takes to become
popular, and even if they wouldn't do it in person, it is easier for
them to do it online, especially if other people are, too. This leads
them to taking pictures of inappropriate things, and posting
inappropriate things they would not normally post (Homayoun 2017). It
can directly affect their chances of being accepted to a college, being
able to receive a job they want, and it can affect the relationships
they have with other people.

Another example of teenagers losing self-esteem from interactions from
social networking is from the amount of attention they receive on their
posts. Teenage girls especially are affected by this. Girls who have low
self-esteem may use social media to feel better about themselves, and
girls with high self-esteem may end up with low self-esteem if they did
not receive the attention they anticipated from the post they made.
Teenage girls are likely to spend hours just trying to choose the
'right' picture to post online (Ehmke). They do this because the link
the amount of 'likes' and comments they receive on their photos and
posts to their perception of themselves. This is very damaging to their
idea of themselves because they may end up not being happy with who they
are because of the lack of attention they receive on their post online,
or they may try to seem like they are someone they are not, and in turn
this hurts their perception of themselves because they are not really
the person they are pretending to be.

In a study conducted on 102 undergraduate students, they tested the idea
that feedback on social media posts is directly related to self-esteem.
In their results, they found that purpose and self-esteem are positively
correlated. For the study, they used information about the students:
average 'likes' on profile pictures, sense of purpose, and their
predicted self-esteem. Because the results showed that positive feedback
on social media posts is correlated to a person's self-esteem, it
supports the idea that positive interactions online can be used for a
person to determine their worth (Burrows 2016). Again, this is dangerous
because if a person does not receive the attention the anticipated, they
will be disappointed, thus leading to negative feelings about
themselves. The physical social interaction is taken away, and they are
relying on social media to make them feel good about themselves.

Without receiving the positive feedback and reassurance on the posts
they anticipated receiving, teenagers can develop anxiety, depression,
and body image problems. This is especially damaging to their
perceptions of themselves because they have no sense of identity because
no one gave it to them. They are relying on other people to create a
sense of self, and when the results do not reach their expectations,
they feel like they are not important (Brown 2018). This idea has them
with a poor perception of themselves based off of what other people
might think, and it is hurtful to their identity.

Social media influencers also have a negative impact on teenagers and
their perception of themselves. People will edit and choose photos that
make them more appealing, and in turn they become extremely popular on
social networking. Companies will use these people to sell their
products, which are often weight loss products, beauty products,
clothes, and other items. Teenagers will see these items, and they will
be advertised to them from a person or a company they like, and the
teens will either want to buy the products, even if they aren't
beneficial to them, or the teen will develop lower self-esteem because
they might not have access to these products, and therefore they will
feel bad about themselves because they can't have it or they can't look
like the person in the photo. Often, the photo is photoshopped, so the
teen is relying on something that is not real to determine their sense
of worth. This is dangerous because they want to have those things
because they want to feel important and popular, and without these
things they will feel bad about themselves and in turn can develop
mental health issues along body image problems.

A study conducted in 2006 found that people who use social media are
three times more at risk of having depression or anxiety (Brown 2018).
These results show that without the role being developed for them by
society, teens can develop mental health issues caused from pressure
online and on social media. This is damaging to their sense of self
because it changes the way they perceive themselves, and it can decrease
their overall wellbeing and quality of life.

Another aspect of social media that can be potentially dangerous for
teens is the idea that the most easily accessible way for them to
receive their news is from social media. This can be dangerous because
what we read online is not always true, and people can make up articles
that seem as though they are actual news, but it is actually fake news.
Fake news is dangerous because the teen will become misinformed and they
may form opinions from inaccurate sources or articles that might not be
reliable. This can be harmful to the teen's sense of self because they
may feel strongly about certain articles and ideas they read about via
social media, and they will not reflect true and accurate ideas.

Politicians also can use social media to convince people to agree with
their ideas. Like social media influencers, politicians and authority
figures can use social media to manipulate perceptions of people online,
including teenagers. In a study conducted by Janey Lee of Lehigh
University, people are more interested in political candidates with
active social networking sites, and disinterested in political
candidates with relatively not active profiles. She used fake
politicians and created their profiles, and sometimes made them comment
and interact with other people, and other times she would leave them
alone. She found that people reacted better towards the candidate who
was more active via social media (Weaver 2014). This builds on the idea
that teens are impressionable, and people of authority can use this to
their advantage. Another recent study showed that 62% of people rely on
social media to receive their news (Gaitho 2018). This means that over
half of the people in the study use social media as their primary
resource of receiving information about news and politics. This can be
harmful to teens because as stated before, not everything that is on the
Internet is true and accurate information.

All of these articles show that Goffman's presentation of self and the
idea of front stage and back stage becomes deformed when it comes to
social media and the online setting. People try to come up with roles to
play, and teens are likely to do whatever it takes to become popular and
more influential via social media. They are willing to lie, make others
look bad, say inappropriate things, and do other damaging things to
their identities because social networking and doing things online makes
it easier to do. Lack of privacy is another growing negative aspect of
social media, and as it develops further there really is no such thing
as privacy when it comes to posts made online. Even if the account is
private, there are still ways for people to get the information you
posted, and for teenagers who post a lot about themselves online, they
are losing all of the personal information quicker than they think.

Since there is no "back stage" for them to be themselves, they use
social media as a platform where they can "be themselves", but social
media is really a place for them to do thing they would not normally do.
This can get teenagers into a lot of trouble, and it can cause them to
lose college acceptance offers and jobs. As social media continues to
grow, the lack of privacy will most likely increase, and hopefully the
education of teens and the influences social media can have on them will
start to be explained.

For Goffman, society supplies the roles that people play in society. The
self and its identity are produced through human to human interaction,
and it is collectively produced by the interaction and everyone who is
involved. Online through social media, there is less of a social
structure than that of typical in person contact, and people are less
invested in their roles. There is less of a risk of not playing the role
correctly because the person playing the role defines the role without
other people helping them. Though it is human to human contact, there is
no physical contact between the people in the situation. People on
social networking can still define the situation the way they want to,
and there are still misunderstanding about the role the person is
playing, but it does not affect the person misinterpreting the role
directly unless they are doing something inappropriate when playing that
specific role.

People can also play different roles because they can make different
accounts. Another dangerous thing that occurs through social media are
dating applications and websites. These are social networking sites that
people use to meet other people. The website or app will match you a
potential person that the other person is likely to get along with, and
the hope is that they will get together and start a relationship
together. This can become dangerous when people use dating sites and use
a profile that is not of them. A survey was conducted via Internet on
teenagers in the United States. The survey's data portrayed that,
"...one in five youth were exposed to sexual solicitation, one in
seventeen were harassed or threatened..." (Sengupta & Chaudhuri 2011).
Another survey received data from 935 teens across the United States.
The teens ranged from ages 10-17, and they were from various regions
across the United States. The survey was used to collect information
about the teens and their use of social media, and how their parents
monitored applications and websites they engaged with online. They
measured two different types of Internet misuse to interpret the
results: cyberbullying and harassment. It found that teenage girls are
especially susceptible to these types of dangers. It also found that
teens who have less monitoring over what they do online, and teens who
overshare sensitive and personal information and photos online are also
at a higher risk of being exposed to the two types of social media
misuse (Sengupta & Chaudhari 2011). This shows that social media can
create an unhealthy environment for everyone who uses it, but especially
young adults.

Since there is no "back stage" online, the whole social networking site
serves as an outlet for users to share and post anything they desire.
When in person, they are able to see the situation and who is involved,
and they can tailor their actions and words to present their role
accurately. Whereas online, the user does not fully know who is able to
see what they have shared, and anyone who sees the posts can interpret
in and define it however they see fit. This is harmful to a teenager's
social identity because they are subjected to others creating ideas
about them that may have come via a post that was misunderstood online.
All of the factors discussed throughout the paper show how detrimental
social media can be to our society as social networking grows and
becomes more popular. Avid users of social media put their identities at
risk, and they may have to face different types of social media misuse.
They could be the one oversharing or sharing inappropriate, or they can
be subjected to people who misuse their information. Through social
networking they are introduced to faulty concepts of reality via social
influencers and fake news, and they also can develop faulty identities.
Comparing themselves or their profiles to people online, and determining
their self-worth through the amount of interaction they get on what they
post online can harm their mental health and sense of self.

Social networking platforms have created a social setting that cannot be
explained by Goffman's theory. Goffman's theory accounts for human to
human interactions, but social networking sites put a device between the
human to human interaction. It takes away the physical social setting,
and it will forever change the way our society functions and how we
interact with each other in person and online. Social media also takes
away the ability for society to create the roles for everyone to play in
their social interactions. In person, they have a specific role, and
that role is provided to them by society. They are able to develop the
role as they see fit, and they have the back stage to be themselves and
prepare for their roles. When they are front stage, they manipulate
their role and change it to fit in the social setting that they are in.
However, social media distorts this. Social media has no formal social
structure. Users are easily influenced online, and overall, they get to
choose the role they play online, it is not provided to them by society
because of the lack of social structure. Users can still manipulate
their role, which can make what they share more influential towards
others, but they can also harm their reputations by posting things that
would not be appropriate in a physical social setting. Online, it is
much easier to misinterpret something a social media user has shared to
their profile. Being able to hide behind a screen makes it easier for
people who use social networking to share inappropriate photos,
comments, and ideas. Social media produces an environment where
cyberbullying can flourish, and cyberbullying can distort other sense of
self. Social media also creates an environment where comparing yourself
to someone else becomes much easier because people typically put their
best pictures online, and this can lead to body image issues for some
teens. All of these things can be harmful to teenager's mental health,
and being involved heavily in social media can affect their overall
wellbeing and overall quality of life and this affects the way
themselves and can be hurtful to their identity and sense of self.

Works Cited

Brown, J. (2018). Is social media bad for you? The evidence and the
unknowns. *BBC.* Retrieved from:
<http://www.bbc.com/future/story/20180104-is-social-media-bad-for-you-the-evidence-and-the-unknowns>

Burrow, A. (2017). How many likes did I get? Purpose moderates links
between positive social media feedback and self-esteem. *Journal of
Experimental Social Psychology,* 69, 232-236. Retrieved from:
<https://www-sciencedirect-com.liblink.uncw.edu/science/article/pii/S0022103116303377>

Ehmke, R. How using social media affects teenagers. *Child Mind
Institute.* Retrieved from:
<https://childmind.org/article/how-using-social-media-affects-teenagers/>

Gaitho, M. (2018). What is the real impact of social media?
*Simplilearn.* Retrieved from:
<https://www.simplilearn.com/real-impact-social-media-article>

Homayoun, A. (2017). The secret social media lives of teenagers. *The
New York Times.* Retrieved from:
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/07/well/family/the-secret-social-media-lives-of-teenagers.html>

Sengupta, A., Chaudhuri, A. (2011). Are social networking sites a source
of online harassment for teens? Evidence from survey data. *Children and
Youth Services Review,* 33(2), 284-290. Retrieved from:
<https://www-sciencedirect-com.liblink.uncw.edu/science/article/pii/S0190740910003208>

Weaver, L. (2014). The impact of social media. *Phys.org.* Retrieved
from: <https://phys.org/news/2014-09-impact-social-media.html>
