> Beauty Myth Final Essay

Are women actually looked upon and at the same standard as men? Over
many many years the view on women has significantly changed and made
them feel looked upon in many different ways. The standards put on women
have increased to the point where they are put to unrealistic standards.
Men and women should be able to feel somewhat equal and not feel this
horrible pressure that women are put under because of their physical
appearances and social standards. There are many different ways that can
prove that women are kinda put down and looked down upon. For example
women never seem to make as much money as the men, women are supposed to
stay home and work the house, women also have this standard that they
have to look a certain way and present themselves in a certain way just
to be able to fit in. Women are expected to act in a specific way to fit
into their society.

Throughout my years going through middle school and highschool I was a
competitive cheerleader for almost 10 years. I always felt that I was
never good enough to be on the highest level team I wanted to be on.
When tryouts came around I always got super nervous because I always
felt well I\'m not good enough, I\'m not strong enough, I do not have
the tumbling or stunting skills I needed to have to be on the team I
really wanted to make. After many tryouts of still not making the team I
just brought myself down and felt like everything thought of me as
she\'s not good enough for this team. Many times throughout my cheer
career I have been told you just do not have the skills you need to make
this team, or you just aren\'t the right fit for this team yet. Because
there were a good amount of boys I cheered for, they were always looked
upon as the strongest and better athletes because they were "boys". I
never felt like enough but I never gave up and continued to fight for
myself and prove I\'m just as strong as the boy athletes.

After many practices of fighting for my spot on this team and trying to
prove to my coaches and everyone else around me I was just as good as
the boys on the team I still felt defeated countless of times.
Throughout practices we would get switched out of our spots in the
routine and be replaced by others on the team because they were"better"
at it than me. One day at practice our coach was helping us work on a
stunt, yet again we couldn\'t make the stunt hit like it needed to so I
got taken out and replaced by one of the boys. I felt so embarrassed
cause I just always felt like the boys could make everything hit perfect
and I was just left out once again. I would talk to my friends at
practice who were girls and they always told me do not worry about it,
you are just as good as everyone else, that made me feel better but I
was still always defeated knowing a boy took my spot in parts of the
routine because they were stronger or better at my position. In the end,
I continued to just stay positive and always remember I'm worth just as
much as those boys on my team no matter what happened.

A reading by Naomi Wolf explains this exact feeling best and that\'s
what is called the beauty myth. Naomi explains the beauty myth as "the
use of images of female beauty as a political weapon against women\'s
advancement. Women are constantly at battle with other women because
there\'s always women that are better looking or have a better body.
They can never come to peace or be among the same standard because
there\'s always competition amongst them. All of this is happening just
because men hold this power over them, making them believe they have to
be a part of this beauty myth to even be accepted. This shouldn\'t even
have to be a thing in today\'s society but because women are just
controlled by this beauty myth nothing will ever change. Unless women
speak about themselves and how they are truly feeling and let their
voices be heard men will continue to hold power over their heads and
nothing will ever change. Women will continue to lose this battle and
have to be brought up into this beauty myth standard.

The beauty myth isn\'t even centered around women and them having to be
held to this certain standard, it\'s about how men hold this power over
them and their institutions. Men are supposed to be portrayed as strong,
tough, and brave men so they can be held above women. This all comes
from hegemonic masculinity. Hegemonic masculinity refers to the dominant
form of masculinity that is privileged and upheld by society. Men are
supposed to be the person who takes care of the family and their women,
or make all the money for the family but these are all specific
stereotypes that people group men as and have always known this and
never really known different. Depending on how you were raised or what
you grew up around depends on how you look at these myths, standards,
etc.

Many times I have felt that I play into these stereotypes and feel like
I am just like every other woman in the world because we are just trying
to fit into this beauty myth standard. During many cheer practices I
felt my coach would just make quick assumptions about my ability to
complete the skills that needed to be completed. I felt as if my coach
was using this beauty myth standard to make assumptions that I wasn\'t
strong enough for what needed to be done. My coach made me feel so
defeated and left me feeling like I wasn't good enough just because I
didn\'t fit into the beauty myth. Because my coach fell into this beauty
myth standard it left many others including me judged. If my coach
wouldn\'t have believed in this beauty myth then this never would have
been an issue.

Over many years women are supposed to be put into this beauty myth and
never really understand what it\'s like to not be in it and not have to
meet these specific standards. The only reason this is an issue is
because men want to hold this power above us and be able to control us
by making us feel like we have to meet this certain standard to fit in.
I came across this beauty myth standard when I was a competitive
cheerleader and there were also boys on my team which

made it hard. The only way something like this is going to change in
today\'s world is if women stand up for themselves and let their voice
be heard about them having to be controlled by men. If women were just
themselves and were normal then they wouldn\'t be good enough because of
this beauty myth standard. The beauty myth standard has made women\'s
lives a lot harder than it needs to be.
