The Beauty Myth and Hegemonic Masculinity

Do women truly get treated with the same respect as men? Women are often
discriminated against in the workplace, in schools, and in other areas
of society. They may be paid less for the same work as men, have fewer
opportunities for promotion, and be subject to sexual harassment or
other forms of discrimination. Women are often stereotyped as being
emotional, weak, or irrational, while men are seen as strong, rational,
and in control. This can lead to women being underestimated or
overlooked in certain situations. Women are often objectified in the
media and popular culture, reducing them to their physical appearance
and sexual desirability. This results in women being seen as less
valuable or worthy of respect than men. These patterns of unequal
treatment are systemic and widespread, and they can have a negative
impact on women\'s lives and opportunities. Due to women's physical
appearance, they are often undervalued, which results in them getting
less respect than men and being treated as less than.

I work at a gym, here at the University of North Carolina Wilmington,
and in my hometown. There, my job is to observe the patrons and make
sure no one gets hurt while working out. I am also required to spot
anyone if they ask for assistance. However, if I am working with another
male, men tend to ask them for a sport rather than me because I am a
female. This is because men tend to perceive women as weaker just
because the common stereotype defines men as more well-built and
muscular compared to the stereotype of women, who are identified as
nurturing and tender. Most men do not realize that women can be just as
strong as men. I lift weights every day and am much stronger than most
people realize because of my physical appearance. I am only 5'3 and 135
pounds so men may think I look incapable of spotting them because of my
appearance. In reality, I am very strong and capable of spotting a male.

Not only have I experienced being judged based on my physical appearance
while working at the gym, but I have also experienced objectification by
men while working out at the gym. I have had many experiences where I
will catch men staring at me or other people will tell me they saw
someone creepily staring at me. I have also had men, some much older,
come up and flirt with me. Men have followed me around the gym just to
stare at me and tried to engage with me in an unwanted way. Men have
also made unsolicited comments about my body and appearance in the gym.
They have invaded my personal space by standing too close to me or,
specifically, one time a man came up behind me while I was squatting and
spotted me even though I did not ask for a sport nor did I need one. I
have also witnessed these same exact scenarios happen to other females
in the gym. All of these go unreported, which allows men to continue to
get away with this behavior.

Naomi Wolf explains the beauty myth as the idea that women\'s value and
worth are primarily based on their physical appearance and that there is
a narrow, often unattainable standard of beauty that women are expected
to conform to. The beauty myth creates unrealistic expectations for
women to achieve a particular body type, skin tone, and facial features,
often by using makeup, cosmetic procedures, and restrictive diets.
According to Wolf, the beauty myth is perpetuated by various industries,
including the fashion, beauty, and diet industries, as well as the
media. These industries profit from promoting the idea that women must
look a certain way to be successful, desirable, and happy. The beauty
myth has been criticized for placing unrealistic and harmful
expectations on women, which can lead to low self-esteem, body image
issues, and even eating disorders. These beauty standards are created by
men to objectify all women.

Women are not the only ones expected to meet high standards, men are
also required to be tough, dominating, and aggressive according to
hegemonic masculinity. Men who embody these traits are seen as more
masculine and are often rewarded with social status and power. For
example, a study was done at an all-boy school called Rockport, to see
if hegemonic masculinity was beneficial or problematic for these boys.
They benefited from hegemonic masculinity because it influenced them
into how men are supposed to behave, disciplined them, and gave them a
common bond. Men can also use hegemonic masculinity to make women feel
less than them by reinforcing traditional gender norms, asserting their
dominance, and treating women as objects rather than individuals. Men
who treat women as objects to be admired or desired are using hegemonic
masculinity to reinforce traditional gender roles. They are perpetuating
the idea that women exist primarily for men\'s pleasure or
entertainment, rather than as individuals with their own desires and
needs.

People often assume that I am physically incapable of certain tasks,
such as spotting them in the gym, due to my physical appearance. In the
gym, men tend to presume that I am not as strong as a male because of
the beauty myth. This is because men perceive women as weaker due to
traditional gender roles and societal expectations. Women are also
expected to look a certain way, and I feel as though I fit into the
stereotypes that are associated with the beauty myth. This results in me
being treated a certain way by men because of my physical appearance.
Women who conform to traditional beauty standards may receive more
attention and compliments from others, particularly men. Men stare at
me, follow me, flirt with me, invade my personal space, and make
comments about my physical appearance in the gym, which is one example
of the effects of the beauty myth. In these instances, men have also
used hegemonic masculinity to make me feel like an object. Men can use
hegemonic masculinity in the gym towards women to reinforce traditional
gender norms, assert their dominance, and treat women as objects rather
than individuals.

Men often treat women differently because of the beauty myth and
hegemonic masculinity. I have personally experienced this in my place of
work and while working out. Men have made assumptions about my
capabilities because of my appearance and common stereotypes created by
the beauty myth. While at work, men tend to ask another male working for
a spot rather than me because they assume that women are weak when women
can be just as strong as men. Men have also objectified me in the gym by
staring, following me, making sexual comments, and unwanted physical
contact. By reinforcing traditional gender norms, asserting their
dominance, and treating women as objects rather than individuals, men
are using hegemonic masculinity to make women feel less than. Standing
up to the men that partake in the beauty myth and hegemonic masculinity,
would be one step toward preventing men from continuing these acts
toward women. We can also speak out against these beauty standards that
promote unrealistic body types, skin tones, or other physical features.
By not accepting the standards of the beauty myth and hegemonic
masculinity, we can put a stop to these stereotypes and unwanted acts
committed toward women.
