The Domination of Patriarchal Power in America

In America, are women given the same treatment as their male
counterparts? Based on the nature of America's democratic society and
its foundational values of freedom, liberty, and equality, it may appear
as though men and women are treated equally. However, if you take a
closer glimpse at the institutional disparities between men and women
that are deeply embedded in the structure of American society, you would
see that this is not necessarily the case.

Women often fall victim to stereotypes that question their competence,
objectify their bodies, and undermine their worth. This is seen in
numerous different aspects of society, such as in the workplace where
women are given less pay than their male peers, even when they are just
as qualified for the job. The marginalization of women is also seen in
how male employers treat their female employees. Oftentimes, employers
treat their female employees as inferior by treating them based on their
physical appearances and taking away their sense of individuality by
defining them subjectively, based on their relation to men. The
inequitable treatment of women has sparked the beginnings of the
feminist movement, a movement created for women to challenge patriarchal
power and gain the liberty that they rightly deserve.

When I turned sixteen years old, I got my first job. I was a cashier at
Harris Teeter and I worked there all throughout high school. Working at
Harris Teeter was a very eye opening experience and I learned a lot
about the differences between how men and women were treated in the work
setting. When I first started working at Harris Teeter, I was told by my
manager that I would start out with a pay of \$9.00 an hour and I would
get a dollar raise with every year that I worked there. I was perfectly
fine with this pay, as I was excited to have my first job and did not
want to question the pay that I was offered. A couple of months later,
one of my male friends started working at the same Harris Teeter as me.
After he got hired, we were having a

conversation and he mentioned to me that he was making \$10.00 an hour.
I was surprised to hear this, as I figured we would be getting the same
pay since we were equally qualified for the job. It tried not to let it
bother me too much, but it did give me an uneasy feeling because I
didn't understand why two individuals with equal qualifications would be
getting different pay rates. It really didn't seem fair to me.

The next day, I decided to have a conversation with my manager about the
situation because it really bothered me that we were being treated
differently. I honestly didn't even care that I was only making \$9.00
an hour, but it was the fact that it seemed as though my manager was
giving his employees whatever pay he wanted based on his own personal
judgements instead of treating them equally. When I asked my manager
about this, he told me that my male friend has stronger physical
abilities than I do, such as being able to lift and stock heavy items
onto the shelves and bring multiple carts in from outside at one time. I
was shocked that my manager would say this to me-- Why was he
automatically assuming that my friend has more physical abilities than I
do just because he is a male? I was really taken aback by his
explanation and asked him why he believed that my male friend was more
physically capable than I was and he said "People like you don't usually
do jobs that require heavy physical labor." By "people like you," my
manager was using the stereotype that just because I am a woman, I am
not capable of doing the same things that men are. This whole
conversation honestly just made me feel a million times worse about the
whole situation, so I left my manager's office with a lump in my throat
and tears in my eyes.

I ran to my car and began to cry. I could not believe that my manager
would speak to me in this way. I felt completely disrespected and I did
not understand why he was undermining my abilities like this. It seemed
that he was equating my worth to my status of being a woman and

because of this, he believed that I did not deserve to be treated
equally. I know my worth and I know what I am capable of, so it was
really disappointing that my manager judged me based on my physical
appearance instead of letting me show him what an exceptional worker I
was. This experience opened up my eyes to one of the many stereotypes
that women face on a daily basis, stereotypes that undermine womens'
worth, their abilities, and their ultimate place in society.

In *"Women as Other"* by Simone De Beauvoir, the author exemplifies the
differences between how men and women are treated by society. De
Beauvoir uses the comparison of women as "the other" and men as the
superior being. "The other" is a term used to oppressively characterize
women as existing based on their relation to men. By defining women as
"the other," the author is describing the idea that women are viewed as
alien figures who are foreigners in the land. Men have their own
autonomy and sense of individuality, while women are continuously
oppressed and have their sense of person taken away at the hands of men,
who are viewed as being superior to them. This is the conscious view of
men as the essential,

all-powerful figures and women as the objects.

De Beauvoir furthers her logic by explaining the differences between how
society views men and women's bodies. According to De Beauvoir, the way
society views men and women's bodies are polar opposites. Women's bodies
are viewed as "an obstacle, a prison, burdened by everything that
particularizes it" (De Beauvoir, 260). In other words, women's bodies
are disrespected and seen as mere objects that are burdened by flaws,
inadequacies, and defectiveness. In contrast, the author asserts that
men's bodies are seen as being vastly superior to women. A man's body is
seen as being sacred and worthy on its own, but a woman\'s body is
nothing without a male.

The view of women as "the other" and men as their all-mighty superiors
relates back to the comments that were made to me by my manager when I
worked at Harris Teeter. Since I am a woman, my manager believed that I
was incapable of doing certain tasks that require physical labor such as
putting heavy items on the shelfs or bringing the heavy carts in from
the cart rack outside. I can now see that this is a clear example of the
view of women as "the other" because my manager believed that I
possessed certain inadequacies and deficiencies due to his belief of the
stereotype that women do not have the same physical abilities as men do.
In this way, my manager was emphasizing the concept that there are
certain things that women must rely on men to do because they do not
have the ability to do these things themselves. This reinforces the idea
that women merely exist in their relation to men rather than having
their own individual sense of selves.

Additionally, the way that my manager spoke to me when I confronted him
about this situation was in a way as if he was talking down to me and
did not care to hear how I felt about the way I was being treated. I was
truly hurt by the situation, but he undermined my feelings and minimized
my worth to the stereotypes and bias that he possessed about women. In
this way, my manager was perpetuating the marginalization of women and
the idea that their voices do not deserve to be heard. This exemplifies
how my manager viewed me as "an other" rather than an individual of
importance because due to my role as a woman, he viewed my thoughts and
feelings about the situation as subjective, not factual, and incomplete.
However, when my male friend has confronted our manager about other
issues in the past, I have noticed that our manager approached his
thoughts in a very different manner, giving him more autonomy and
viewing his thoughts as being more factual and well-respected than mine.
This further perpetuates a larger

issue at hand, specifically the marginalization and mistreatment of
women in a male dominated society.

The patriarchy is a type of institution where men dominate society and
women given very little freedom and power. Additionally, women are often
defined as being "others," their importance existing only in their
relationship to men. When I saw the major differences in how my manager
treated me and my male friend, I saw the marginalization and
discrimination of women play out in real time. The feminist movement
began in the 1960s, and this is the first time women began to speak out
against the mistreatment and inequality they were facing. This movement
sparked some liberal reform, but our society still has a long way to go
in treating men and women as equal. In order to further the fight for
the equal treatment of men and women, it is important for women to
continue to speak out against the oppression they are facing. This
includes speaking out against male oppressors that undermine their worth
as well as standing up for themselves and the freedoms that they
deserve. Additionally, it is important to break down the stereotypes
against women that have been ingrained in society for decades by
becoming aware of your own biases and not feeding into these
stereotypes. The fight for gender inequality is an arduous battle, but
it is one that is worth fighting for.
