0043

Dr. Elliot

SOC 105-008

1 May 2023

The Self Reflection Essay

Is the conception of the self based off the way we perceive ourselves or
from the perspective of others; and do the environments we are placed in
influence our behaviors? Although, it might seem that we are constantly
critiquing ourselves it is seen that the emergence of modernity has
shaped the notion of self. One knows who they are, how to act, and when
to act in particular ways because of others and their influences. It is
a common thought that we are self-aware, but I posit that we are not
because within the situation it is difficult to fully grasp this idea.
In a report it stated most people believe they are self-aware, yet only
10%---15% of people actually fit the criteria. In western society, it
has been noticed that the majority of identities these days come from
the perspective of how others perceive us rather than the raw portion of
our personalities and what makes us unique for who we are. To understand
this concept, one must examine the constituent parts of the self and how
they are related to human behavior within different environments.

In high school I went to a private Christian school where we would wear
uniforms and take the most challenging courses in order to be a college
preparatory school. While in this setting I was surrounded by everyone
who seemed to be there for the same reasons. One, they had money to
afford a prestigious school, two, parents wanted their children to be
around other Christians so when they left for college they would have a
solid foundation, and lastly in order to receive an education that was
top tier in the area. As a background as to why I went to this school in
the first place is because my family has a legacy there. All of my
siblings went to high school at Asheville Christian Academy and my
father served on the board. In a sense I did not have the choice whether
I wanted to attend. This perspective does not disregard my gratefulness
for having the opportunity to attend a college preparatory school
though. Yet, from my experiences I have felt that there were moments
that did not encompass my true "self."

Because I was surrounded by the same type of people in high school where
we quite literally all looked the same due to the fact, we wore uniforms
I think it created a stereotype in which I found myself often times
having to pretend to be more Christian than I was in order to please my
friend group and teachers who were very religious. For example, each
Tuesday the entire high school would have a convocation and chapel. This
included a time of worship in which we would all sing. In order to
please others, I would sing along even if I didn't feel emotionally
connected to the words or meaning of the song.

This situation at high school to conform to the stereotypes of
Christianity and present myself as something that I was not emotionally
engaged with is a pure example of Goffman's idea of the presentation of
the self. This idea presents that we are always presenting ourselves. He
uses a stage as an analogy is where our interactions are produced. The
front stage is where we are being presented and must be polished. So, in
my situation my idea of the front stage was to act as if I was religious
in front of my friends, family, and teachers so that I could appease
them. Then, the backstage is where things come together. Before school I
would need to prepare myself to act in this way so that everyone would
think I was just like them. It was like a coat that you put on and then
take off. If I had not bought into feeling the need to act like someone,
I was not then I feel like I could've had the opportunity to discover my
true self in high school rather than in college.

Now that I am in college here at the University of North Carolina
Wilmington as a freshman I have experienced what I would say would be a
culture shock. Coming from the background of always being surrounded by
the same people in high school I have found that college is much
different than that. I have met many people who are from many different
backgrounds. I have felt that I have been more able to express who I am
and explore who I really want to be. Yet, there are times that I wish I
could find a church group because my family always asks me about that
when I come home, because I would like to please them and the standards
that they have for me. Here at college, I have experienced that one
often gets looked down upon for being religious as from experiences with
one of my friends who hates on people who are semi-religious. I have a
couple of friends who are like me but ultimately it is difficult to find
the right people, but this is by choice rather than being forced.

I think the difference between high school and college is that in high
school I didn't have as much of a choice as to who I was around, but
here at college there is more diversity allowing me to be more open and
find myself. Although, I do still struggle sometimes with the
presentation of the self and having my identity being influenced by
others, I think this in turn plays into James' idea of the self and how
we are perceived.

This has a direct correlation with James' idea of the self. He breaks it
down into 3 different parts. The material self which includes clothes,
property, friends, and family. I experience this in the way that I am
constantly making sure that the clothes I wear fit into what everyone
else has. The social self which is my role and reputation is seen
through the lens that I want to fit in with my friends here at college
and go with the flow. And lastly the pure ego which is the core of my
spiritual self and the life force that creates my reactions is what I
know is deep down my moral spectrum that won't allow me to do anything
bad during my time here at college. Through the different perspectives
of the self, I personally agree that I resonate with all of these on a
daily basis to appease the people that are around me.

I also resonate with Mead's idea of the I and the Me. He explains how
the Self is experienced out of internal dialogue between the "I" and the
"Me. Therefore, the "I" is the subjective reaction of the mind to the
stimuli. So, in my experiences many of the external forces of others and
the people I surrounded myself with was the "I" in these situation. Yet,
the "Me" is the objective evaluation of the "I" reaction. So, the "I"
came from my natural reactions, and the "Me" would be like an off and on
the switch to act accordingly based on my environment. Therefore, the
nature of myself can be seen as the nature of the language of society
and the particular settings that I have been located in.

Through the presentation of the self, the idea of the self, and the I
and the Me I have been influenced many times to conform to what society
has told me to do. Yet, in order for one to combat the issue of
conforming to society and finding identity in our true selves we need to
believe in ourselves and act accordingly for what we think is right for
yourself not what society says. Based on my experiences, I am still
learning how to do this and how to surround myself with people that I
feel like I can be myself in.

Works Cited

Goffman, Erving. *The Presentation of the Self.* Vintage Classics. 1959.

James, Williams. *The Social Self.* Vintage Classics. 1890.

Mead, George. *The Self, the I, and the Me.* Vintage Classics. 1929.
