The Misogynistic Ideals of a Woman

For a woman to feel comfortable in her own skin, it takes her about 18.7
minutes to get ready in the morning; whereas, for some women who aren't
as confident it takes them 26.1 minutes to get ready. Since the 1800's
women have been judged, ridiculed, contradicted and ashamed simply based
on their appearance. For women, it is a constant battle to look a
certain way in order to gain men's approval. The value of men and women
are on two drastically different scales. Men are the dominant figures,
the ones who make the money and hold the power. Whereas, the women seek
a husband, create a family and strive to maintain an appearance that is
picture-perfect.

I was thirteen when I was first ridiculed for my body by my male ballet
teacher. He looked at me and about three or four other girls and
commented on our legs, specifically our thighs. I vividly remember him
grabbing his thigh, wiggling it and explaining to me that that is how my
thigh looked when jumping in the air. He then went on to tell us that we
are not fit to be ballerinas simply because of how our bodies looked. I
went home after ballet class and googled pictures of ballerinas. My
computer screen became consumed with girls who had lengthy legs, slim
and accentuated waists with lasting long hair. As I continued to go to
dance class, I would catch a glance at the advanced class. The majority
of the girls in the advanced class were seventeen or eighteen. I quickly
took into account how their bodies looked and how they were shaped. They
danced with such confidence and, as they looked in the mirror, you could
tell they enjoyed the tall, pinched and feathery ballerina staring back
at them. As I progressed through the levels of dance, the comments about
my or another classmate\'s body became more frequent. I can recall
teachers instructing me to imagine I was wearing a corset or to suck in
my stomach or to fix my stomach as it resembled something of a hoagie
roll. At the age of thirteen I became conscious and hyper fixated on how
my body looked in the eyes of others.

Upon entering high school I decided to join the school\'s Dance Team
along with my friends who were also interested. We had practice two
times a week and danced at football and basketball games. At football
games we danced on the sidelines with the occasional halftime
performance. But at basketball games, our main focus was the halftime
performance. A large factor in our performances was the entertainment
aspect. The seniors were in charge of choreography and wanted to ensure
the student section was intrigued. The girls worked hard to hold their
attention by incorporating tricks, various formation changes, and
popular music at that point in time. But it appeared that the only time
the student section, specifically the boys, showed any form of interest
was when we turned our backs and our asses were to the audience. The
choreographers quickly took into account what sparked their interest
and, because of the compliance from the audience, the girls began to
incorporate certain moves. The Dance Team soon gained a reputation for
having slinky dances simply because we got applause for that one
occurrence. In order for the Dance Team to enter the stadium and locate
our designated spots on the bleachers, it required us to walk by the
student section. The upperclassmen boys were always seated in the first
few rows. When walking by you could feel the eyes on you and hear the
crud comments that were made with the administration standing just feet
away.

As I progressed through my years of high school, similar behavior from
the male students began to increase. During my senior year I was sitting
in class when it came to my attention that a group of boys at my school
had constructed a list of girls from my grade and rated them on a scale
of one to ten. The rating scale was based on physical appearance,
physique and style. Some girls were higher than others because the boys
found certain aspects to be more attractive than others. When walking
the halls of my local high school it was apparent that every girls'
closet and beauty regime consisted of the same thing. Lululemon, a
popular athleisure brand, was worn amongst girls. A day to day outfit
consisted of leggings that cinched at the waist and a tight fitted shirt
that showed off the breast region and skinny arms. No girl cut her hair
because long hair was considered "hot". Young girls followed this as a
way to adhere to the standard set in place by the male population. A
standard that consisted of unrealistic expectations and a scale of
numbers. For girls, scoring high on the scale defined their beauty but
for boys it was simply a game.

Naomi Wolf, an American feminist author and conspiracy theorist,
explains the significant concern women have for their physical
appearance, bodies, faces, hair, and clothes to fit the beauty standard.
Wolf interprets a common sociological concept known as the 'beauty myth'
by stating, "We are in the midst of a violent backlash against feminism
that uses images of female beauty as a political weapon against women's
advancement: beauty myth.". Discrimination against women first reared
its ugly head during the Industrial Revolution. Before the development
of technology and mass media, the ideal woman was defined as a fertile
and family oriented figure. The woman\'s work complemented the mans and
was controlled on the basis of marital constraints. The assumptions of
beauty date back to the 1830's but it wasn't until the 1840's when the
first nude photographs of prostitutes were captured and advertised as
"beautiful". As technology continues to develop, images degrading women
to nothing continue to develop. The dissemination of "beautiful" images
is sought out to degrade women. Wolf explains the spread of pornographic
and inappropriate images is rooted in the fact that male-dominated
institutions are threatened by women's freedom and tend to exploit them
for our own insecurities.

Naomi Wolf writes, "Most urgently, women's identity must be premised
upon our "beauty" so that we will remain vulnerable to outside approval,
carrying the vital sensitive organ of self esteem exposed to the air.".
According to societal views, women are nothing without beauty. A
woman\'s value is set on unnatural physical standards that they are
expected to compete for. Since the last decade eating disorders and
cosmetic surgeries have increased exponentially. The strong influence of
diet, cosmetics, cosmetic surgery and pornographic industries has placed
pressure and anxiety on women to uphold the ideals. The beauty myth has
refined what it means to be a woman in today's society and is beginning
to not only affect them physically but psychologically.

The role of men and women are two distinct properties. Men are showcased
as the strong, dominant figure; whereas, women are frail and pleasing to
look at. Society is infiltrated with male dominant institutions that
keep the beauty myth alive. Defensive othering causes an increase in
negative thought as a large social category collectively believes it is
true. Masculinity can be described with the term "hegemonic
masculinity". It is the idea that males are the superior figures in
today's society and the insubordination of women is justified through
their actions.

The male population at my high school displayed behavior that is
categorized as "hegemonic masculinity". The aggression, taunting and
sexualizing that took place in the halls of the school, pressured many
girls including myself to uphold those standards. If not, you were
portrayed as undesirable or someone who couldn't "get guys". Approval
from guys was imperative for reputation and social approval. The
behavior was often overlooked and there was never an end to it. My
ballet teacher, for instance, felt the need to comment on our bodies
because at that given time he had the power. He and the boys at my high
school asserted themselves as the dominant figures because we live in a
world where that is the norm.

Many of the girls in my high school slipped into the stereotype of the
beauty myth and I am guilty of this as well. Through media, social
interactions and thought, it is relayed that women must fit a form of
beauty. The boys at my school formed this image in their head of what
the "perfect" girl looked like and we were expected to relay that.
Spending an extra five minutes on your makeup every morning in hopes
that the cute boy catches a glimpse of you in the hallway, or doing
fifty sit ups before putting on a bikini just so you don't come across
as ugly. Incorporating moves into a dance that maybe the choreographers
didn't particularly like but the audience sure did. Seeking that
approval meant that I was wanted and valued. It is a constant internal
and external battle that me, and countless other women, face.

A woman\'s merit is measured by her beauty and physical appearance. For
women it is a social climb to be respected in today\'s society.
Stereotypes against women are seen in the workforce, home and in a
social context. Society anticipates women to embody the beauty standard
put in place by men. I have personally experienced this through growing
up as a dancer and being a young female in public high school. If my
observations have taught me anything it is to not give them the
satisfaction and power. If us women continue to feed into the
dehumanizing standard that is the beauty myth it will only develop a
sizable amount.
