The Presentation of the Self

One Question I repeatedly hear from my roommate is, "Why are you always
so hard on yourself?" For example, I complain about my grades if they
are less than an A, as well as if I make a perfectly normal mistake.
However, despite my errors, she accepts me the way I am in these
instances, mainly because roles such as academia and responsibility are
not what I am required to prove to her. Throughout different "scenes"
over the course of our lives, we put on new costumes, act as different
characters, and engage in different roles the best we can. However, it
is only natural that like in any performance, we forget our lines or
trip on stage. This has the potential to disrupt the balance within the
production. Upon this occurring, it can embarrass and make others
uncomfortable. So, why do we take ourselves so seriously? I believe this
is a question that us as humans do not analyze enough. At the end of the
day, maybe our best performances are improv.

Throughout my personal life, my specific roles and characters change
immensely from situation to situation. When I was growing up, I noticed
that in every friend group, I played the role of the "dumb" one,
frequently being teased for my awkward jokes or irrelevant comments. I
have always been told that I am an "easy target" for teasing, as well as
"we aren't laughing at you, we are laughing with you" a countless number
of times. Although this was true sometimes, it does not mean it did not
offend me. This trend additionally followed me into middle school as
well as high school within the friend groups I would weave through. If I
would get upset from the "playful" teasing, then I would be taking it
too seriously and take the fun out of the joke. This ties back to the
role I played among my friend groups. My role is making silly mistakes
for the purpose of others laughter and entertainment. I have accepted
that this is my role and that it is this way because that is what my
friends expect from me and accept me for. However, in other scenarios,
such as my family and academics, playing the role of the "easy target"
would be disappointing.

If I am performing the role of daughter, I am expected to be
responsible, independent, and live up to the expectations of my older
sister. In order to do these things, I have to hold myself accountable
for my grades, actions, expenses, and other things that come with being
grown up. This means always working hard to supply myself with money,
always getting straight A's, and handling my real-world issues on my
own. This role of the put-together, smart, independent girl is far from
what I experience around my friends. I am required to transform from the
silly bubblehead girl to the smart and sophisticated women. Being all
these things and not slipping up is very difficult and trust me, I have
fallen out of character many of times before. When this happens, I get
hit with an "how could you" attitude. When my role is questioned, others
around me do not know how to react. When the critics does not like the
performance, they will be sure to let you know in the reviews.

In Erving Goffman's piece, "Presentation of Self", he illustrates the
idea of us as humans, presenting ourselves as though we are performers
on a stage, and these performances make up the self. He states, "the
very structure of the self can be seen in terms of how we arrange for
such performances in our Anglo-American society" (Goffman). Face to face
interactions give us a role to fill and stage where we preform them. We
gain a sense of self and identity through social encounters and
preforming these roles. "A correctly staged and preformed scene leads to
audience to impute a self a preformed character" (Goffman). We take our
characters very seriously because they give us a role in the social
world. Therefore, living up to these expectations is very important to
us.

We are constantly searching for meaning in our lives. Humans strive to
find a place in this society. This is why we participate in collaborate
meaning-making processes like religion, clubs, activist group, etc. We
have seen this trend in our world for thousands of years. We appeal to
the collective conscious to fit in so that we can relate to one another
and give meaning to this life. We live in the ideas of narratives to
give explanation to the external world and create roles for ourselves to
play. With all this being said, it is only natural that we want to play
our roles the best we can in order to feel fulfilled in life.

I feel as though I, as well as others, take my roles very seriously
because without them, I feel as though I have no purpose. We strive to
appeal to the standards that the social creates. Through these standards
and expectations, the self emerges and is shaped through trial and
tribulation. When I am with my friends, I know the type of person they
expect me to portray. I know what to say, the jokes to make, and the way
to act. With my family, I know how to turn myself into the responsible,
academic, and mature daughter they raised me to be. I know what jokes to
slide into the conversations and when to be silly at the right time,
without breaking my reputation. Breaking our character means breaking
our reputation, which leaves us in the world with an unfilled purpose
and lack of meaning.

So why do we take ourselves so seriously? As described throughout this
paper, it is to find and create meaning for us. We want to feel
fulfilled in our interactions and contribute positive meaning to the
world around us. Like we see in religion, organizations, and many other
things, we want meaning to explain our purpose in this world. All of
this is very understandable and reasonable ways to think. Society has
engraved in our minds the type of people we are supposed to be and the
characters we are expected to portray. In my own life, I demonstrate
needing to find meaning within social interactions. I allow myself to
play a role that I am not always comfortable with because it gives me a
purpose in my friend group. In my family, I let them hold me up to
higher standard because I want them to be proud of me. I need to fulfil
that role the best I can in order to feel like I have meaning to them.

As humans, we are bound to take ourselves too seriously. This idea has
been constructed and enforced by the social for a very long time. I
think striving for meaning in our lives is a trend we will never break
out of. However, I think instead of taking ourselves so serious in our
roles, we should learn to break out of character sometimes. If we didn't
limit ourselves to what is expected of us, we can discover more about
ourselves as people. Also, if we criticized less when people stepped out
of their roles, everyone would feel more accepted when they cannot live
up to others standards. Overall, I think we all need to be less hard on
ourselves about meeting the expectations of others and ourselves. Being
authentic in all circumstances may lead to a happier and better state of
mind.

Works Cited

Goffman, Erving. "Presentation of Self." Taylor and Francis, 1977, pp.
255--257.
