The Problem of Doing Gender and Weight Lifting

Are women judged for interacting in activities broadly known as manly?
And vice versa. Although in today\'s world it may seem that people are
normalizing these 'gender' set activities, many still have underlying
biases and narratives that they may not be aware of. It may seem as if
our society is trying to break down the wall of differences between male
and female activities, but this wall is still prominently standing. The
wall of doing gender and what is expected of your biologically given
sex, each is set into strict categories. Are women still expected to
dress feminine, wear makeup, do their hair, nurture, clean, and take
care of the house and kids? Are men still expected to be the
breadwinner, strong, tough, successful, and dominant? Our society is
steadily advancing, but a large population of our society remains in the
traditional gender role mindset. This is holding back the movements of
feminism and equality throughout our

modern-day society, establishing gender guidelines.

I often go to the gym because I enjoy working out and caring for my
body. After ending my basketball career throughout high school I found a
greater passion to take care and love my body by weight lifting. There
are many ways to engage in physical activity but it was the one I was
most intrigued by and interested in. This is a male-dominated industry,
going back from the narrative that 'men are stronger than women',
physically yes, but this does not qualify women as being incapable of
weight lifting. I have had a variety of first-hand experiences that
further the narrative of weightlifting being a male hobby. Attending the
gym for around 4 years now this has become more evident. Although the
industry is becoming leveled out due to awareness, predetermined biases
have been put forth into my experiences.

Originally as I began attending the gym I was told that women
"shouldn\'t have muscular arms", and that "you don't want to look like a
guy". In my mind, I was staying fit and healthy. I was told by others,
and social media, for girls to stick to the cardio. I was even told by
my father, who lifts weights, that "women shouldn\'t have big muscles".
This insulted me but only made me want to lift weights more. I
questioned these reasonings because who made the rules that men and
women have to look different and partake in different activities? I
believed I could do anything a man could do. Going to school boys would
talk about lifting and protein, supplements, and all things gym, but
girls would never talk about this. I questioned why there was such a
substantial divide.

As I started advancing in weight lifting I attended a nicer gym with a
prominent demographic of men. Particularly males who were involved in
bodybuilding. This was when the judgments of women working out became
evident. I have experienced two separate significant instances where men
were trying to tell me how to lift weights or what they thought I should
do, in a condescending way. Insinuating that I was incapable on my own
to know how to do my workout. The first instance occurred when I was
doing a shoulder press on the bench and free weight section at the gym.
A man was doing the same exercise beside me on a bench, he came up to me
and asked if he could work in between sets with me. I was confused
because he was probably twenty years older than me. He wanted to show me
the way he does shoulder press because he assumed mine wasn\'t good
enough. He hadn\'t had the chance to see me doing a set yet, he was
assuming that I didn\'t know how to do it. I told him 'No thank you' but
he persisted and asked me nearly five more times until I left that area
and finished my workout somewhere else.

A second instance occurred as I was walking on the treadmill. I was
warming up for my workout. As I was walking, an older man that I often
saw at the gym came up to me. He said that he saw me in the gym a lot
and asked if I wanted him to train me. This wasn\'t said in a 'helpful
tone', it was said in a 'I know more than you' tone. He asked if I would
want him to create a workout plan and show me how to do a variety of
workouts... that I already knew how to do. I didn\'t like the vibe of
this interaction. He was asserting the dominance of his knowledge of the
gym and lifting weights over me. If you turn the situation around and a
grown woman asks a teenage boy to train him, people would see that as
odd. In the fitness industry men teaching women is the standard due to
the lack of female leadership among this population.

Social media has become a widespread way to spread awareness of
weightlifting, and the social media industry is male-dominated as well.
This creates gym anxiety for many girls because they are not as
normalized in the environment. I have had thoughts of creating a gym
content social media account but have a fear of being told I am not
qualified enough because of my sex.

> To lay out the sociological dynamic of this situation it is essential
> to explain each part.

Sex is biologically given at one\'s birth which sets them into a
category that society\'s expectations are made from and connected to.
The societal standards that are coordinated to one\'s sex is their
gender. Gender is the social category in the collective consciousness
which is a structure. Sex category is how others categorize you into
your gender display, which is a structure. Doing Gender is the agency,
Candace West and Don H. Zimmerman explain this concept: \"We contend
that the \"doing\" of gender is undertaken by women and men whose
competence as members of society is hostage to its production. Doing
gender involves a complex of socially guided perceptual, interactional,
and micropolitical activities that cast particular pursuits as
expressions

of masculine and feminine natures." (Gender & Society) Men doing their
gender and expectation is intruded on when women step into this place,
such as the gym. Patriarchy as an institution exhibits the dominant
mindset over women in the gym.

In the context of my life and my situation, my sex is female, my sex
category is female as well, the gender that I am performing is female,
and as I am doing my gender expectations have been crossed over from the
male expectation of doing gender. The collective consciousness does not
welcome a female into a male space and the idea of this seems unsettling
to many. This explains why men feel dominant in the setting of the gym
because men are supposed to be 'strong' while women are seen to be
'gentle'. However, this is not the outlook of all of society.

Many men are very comfortable and supportive of women in the gym and
lifting weights. The largest way to make a change to gender standards is
to keep raising awareness, especially in the gym environment for women
to feel welcome and comfortable. As well as continuing to push the
limits and enable women to be socially capable of anything a man is.
