The Symbolism and Collective Consciousness of Flowers

Throughout time people have given flowers to represent a sense of
gratitude, love, forgiveness, or grief. Although flowers have not always
had a symbolic meaning, they have gained one as humanity has progressed.
A collective consciousness is the reference to common ideas or beliefs
shared amongst a group or society. In short, as history progressed
humanity determined what meaning to assign flowers at various points
throughout history, the meaning behind giving flowers had different
definitions. When you are given a bouquet by your significant other
there is a subconscious processing of your emotions that is set into
motion, done so by connecting the current situation to the symbolism of
those flowers. This can determine the dynamic of floral symbolism and
how it reflects on the social stands. Additionally, flowers can send a
powerful message to the person receiving them. Flowers help the
recipient understand and internally analyze others and how the gift
makes them feel. To some, flowers represent the intention of longing
expression and emotion. As humanity continues to collectively define and
redefine the meaning of flowers as time progresses a continuous trend of
emotional expression will remain.

Most people have given or received flowers at least once in their life.
Recipients of flowers autonomically process the emotions and meaning
behind the flowers. Some may choose to sit and reflect on the flower (s)
they have just received, or just automatically say "thank you" and move
on. One must have observed the present situation of receiving flowers,
and then consciously decide on what they mean. In some movies, flowers
are used for medical purposes to heal the ill or cause harm to an enemy.
An example of a flower\'s medical purpose shown in television is in the
American television series "Breaking Bad." In this series, Walter White
used the flower "Lilly of the Valley" to poison a child. In contrast, in
the popular 2004 romance movie "The Notebook", Noah leaves Allie flowers
on the bedside pillow to give a kind gesture of love and romance towards
Allie. Speaking from personal experience, flowers can also represent
apologetic attitudes or an individual\'s need for forgiveness. While in
a long-term relationship, I was cheated on. My ex-boyfriend was
determined to come to my house and bring flowers. In this scenario, the
gift of flowers was an attempt to reconcile and a way for him to seek
forgiveness. Therefore, flowers represent different ideological ideas,
ideas we as individuals compose in our minds given certain
circumstances.

While attending in-class lectures, our class dove into two major
concepts, symbolism, and collective consciousness. These concepts help
one understand how individuals tie meaning to flowers. Symbolic meaning
involves the use of symbols or signs to transcribe ideas, objects,
social statuses, or relationships. In context, flowers are symbols, and
concepts that add depth or significance to various occasions and or
expressions. On the other hand, collective consciousness provides other
meanings for flowers. Collective consciousness refers to the collective
understanding or definition of something by a group of people. Flowers
can be collectively defined through a group of people. Over time, these
collective definitions can become social standards or norms. The idea of
collective consciousness plays a major role in how society forms the
significance of flowers.

The connection between these concepts can be either consciously or
subconsciously connected. The meaning of flowers and how they protrude
can be influenced by culture, social or regional ideologies. This will
engage the brain\'s process for transcribing the symbolic meaning and
collective consciousness that is connected to flowers. Flowers trigger
an individual\'s emotions and cognitive processes to understand the
meaning of one\'s emotions. This understanding of both symbolic meaning
and collective consciousness will engage us to understand the definition
of flowers and how influential they are towards our emotions. The flower
is a powerful symbol of human emotion, the shared values among humans
and their emotions. Therefore, the emotional reasoning that comes with
flowers is a timeless significance to other human's expression towards
the symbolic meaning.

Giving flowers can mean a variety of different concepts depending on the
person and the situation it is in. As stated before in the popular
television series "Breaking Bad", Walter White uses the flower "Lilly of
the Valley" to poison someone in hopes of causing them harm. For Walter
White to have this knowledge there had to be prior collective
consciousness and experimenting to determine whether the flower was
poisonous or not. Then once people discovered it was poisonous it was
determined that the symbolism of "Lilly of the Valley" is harmful and
dangerous. In addition to previously stated information, there is also a
symbolism surrounding the flowers Noah gives Allie in the popular
romance film "The Notebook". Within the movie, there is a scene where
Noah lays roses with a note beside Allie. The roses are a sign of beauty
and class. Allie subconsciously decides this due to her future fianc√©
giving her flowers before their wedding. On the note Noah left for
Allie, he tells her about the painting room looking over the water so
she could paint, like the planned oh so long ago. Noah did this to give
Allie everything she ever wanted and dreamed about with the house. In my
personal experience, the gift of flowers was not meant to harm me or
show me any affection. The flowers I received from my ex-boyfriend were
those of pity, meant to rewrite past wrongs. I decided subconsciously
that my ex knew my favorite flowers and used the symbolism of what I
adore the most in the floral category to make up or repay for his past
mistakes. Although flowers have a dear place in my heart, no gift would
be able to make me forget what he had done. However, the flowers do show
that he cared enough and that he remembered even the smallest details.
This showed the symbolism I attached to the flowers since they are my
birth month flower.

While considering all this information, giving your significant other
the gift of flowers is a gesture of gratitude and affection. Some may
even call it a gesture of sympathy. There has always been an evolving
and changing symbolic expression of flowers throughout history. The
collective consciousness guides the meaning of flowers, from cultural,
social, and emotional impacts on the definitions. Your subconsciousness
and consciousness process the flower's symbolic purpose showing an
emotional connection to the item. For example, "Breaking Bad" and "The
Notebook" depict how flowers are not only symbolic and meaningful but
can also be used as tools for character development. These shows use
items such as flowers to show the difficult emotions or intentions of
characters to viewers. While "Breaking Bad" shows the harmful and darker
form of human intentions, "The Notebook" shows the concept of
everlasting love and beauty through roses. Roses symbolize Noah's desire
for Allie's presence. All in all, the two key concepts, symbolism, and
collective consciousness are used to make viewers connect with
characters and scenes in cinema. Ultimately, flowers gain a different
meaning throughout situations, periods, or emotions. Nonetheless, there
will always be an endless connection between humans and flowers. Whether
this be a positive or negative attachment, symbolism, and collective
consciousness will extend toward every flower and its interpretation.
