Through the Looking Glass

Is how someone else interprets your value in life more important than
the value you uphold yourself to? In our society today, the importance
of things such as how much money you make, what kind of brands of
clothing you wear, and the grade on top of your paper has begun
formulating itself into how you may believe others perceive you. Many
people may interpret what those around them say concerning their overall
well-being as the value they deserve to hold themselves to. One may
begin to believe they have to hear certain things to recognize a person
they like in the mirror. Constant thinking of what others think of you
can cause a serious detrimental downfall in your overall self-esteem.

Growing up, I was always on top of my grades. I would never want to miss
a day of school, and would always feel immense guilt if I had to stay
home for any reason at all. I never felt forced by my parents or anyone
around me in my early years to get good grades, as it always came easy
to me. I never needed to sit for long periods studying for exams or had
to spend hours on homework. I received multiple academic awards
throughout my time in middle school and high school and I never imagined
it could get harder than what I've seen from the beginning. I realized
the true standards my parents held me to once I hit my senior year. I
quickly had a sudden awakening that things would not remain as easy as I
believed they had been for so long in my academic life.

Walking into my freshman year of college as a nursing major, I realized
how important my grades were and that I would not get by without
studying. These topics did not come as easily to me as they did
throughout my earlier years of school. My grades had begun to slightly
slip, but the only thing on my mind was what my parents were going to
think of me. I would avoid phone calls from my parents whom I knew were
going to question my grade in my biology class- my most important class
of the semester. I began to become harder on myself each day, feeling
like I was not smart enough to take these courses, as I thought that\'s
what my parents would believe of me. I would spend relentless hours
trying to cram all the material I could into my head days before my
exam, but my grade would only crawl up small percentages. I felt lost,
thinking I couldn't confide in my parents because they would be
disappointed in me, and I soon became disappointed in myself. I thought
if I changed my major I was so proud to uphold, what would people think
of me? My mind was constantly brewing the idea of people assuming I was
not smart enough to pursue a career in nursing, and I began to begin to
believe it. I worked as hard as I could but did not receive the A in the
class I needed to continue my route in applying to the nursing program.
I met with my advisor and she recommended me to retake the class to
receive an A because a B was not sufficient. I was immediately
embarrassed, thinking she was the first person to potentially think low
of me, and I could only imagine what my parents would think of me after
hearing this.

After telling my parents what had happened in the following weeks, I
recognized they weren't there to judge me based on my academics, but
there to support me regardless of the situation. Hearing how much they
were there to be a support system to me, I stopped being so hard on
myself and have found myself in a comfortable studying habit; with my
grades back to where they should be. I needed to stop overthinking how I
assumed people would perceive me and begin to do the work for myself and
my hopeful future. No one around me would have thought any less of me,
but when I looked back at myself that was all I thought of my person,
the grade was on top of a paper.

According to Charles Horton Cooley, "The thing that moves us to pride or
shame is not the mere mechanical reflection of ourselves, but an imputed
sentiment, the imagined effect of this reflection upon another's mind."
(Cooley 142) Throughout his article, he emphasizes the point that the
way you feel about yourself comes directly from how you believe others
perceive you. We look at ourselves in the mirror and see how other
people see us rather than our actual selves. Just as in an example of
society, we may change the way we dress or act, based on what we believe
those that surround us will be most satisfied with. If you surround
yourself with a group of people who act a certain way, you may change
your being to avoid any judgment from them. Cooley highlights the idea
that we bring the "I" of ourselves into social settings, forcing us also
to bring the idea of self-esteem into it. We feel validated when someone
says something positive about us since we will immediately believe how
the rest of the public eye will view us, increasing our self-esteem. He
created this theory, and referred to it as the "looking-glass self."

Connecting back to my personal experience, instead of looking at the
bigger picture of my grades, I was worried about what the people closest
to me would think of me. I convinced myself in my head I was not smart
enough for the courses I was taking, and that's what everyone else would
think, but no one ever did. I changed the way that I thought about my
own well-being within my academic standing because that's what I
imagined my parents would think. What I saw in my mirror was someone who
wasn't committed to their work, and was not able to strive in a college
environment. Through my looking glass, I saw someone unable to succeed,
but I was able to change my perspective once I recognized no one but
myself believed this about me.

We often change the way that we do things in our lives to satisfy those
around us. The idea of what one may want us to be like can truly degrade
our self-image. Through Cooley's idea of the "looking-glass self", one
can understand the theory of people changing the way they perceive
themselves due to what they imagine what others think of them. Many
people may interpret what those around them say concerning their overall
well-being as how much value they should hold themselves to. I used my
own experience to help me understand that not many people care as much
as you think, and your own thoughts should be how you interpret yourself
without the input of other people's possible opinions. We mainly are the
reflection of other's minds, but you have the ability to take charge and
eliminate those ideas from overpowering your own self-esteem. You can
formulate your own opinions of yourself, and be the best possible
version without worrying what other people may think.
