6386

Professor Elliot

SOC 105-007

1 May 2023

Wage Gap Empirical Puzzle

Are women truly given a fair shot to make money compared to men?
Millions of women are in the workforce today but make significantly less
money than men. There is a wage gap that exists in America, and
currently, it is eighty-two cents to every dollar a man makes. Women
have already overcome many obstacles when it comes to oppression. The
wage gap is another obstacle that must be overcome. The wage gap is not
a problem that begins when women are in the workforce later in their
careers it starts right when they enter. Not only is it difficult for
women to make fair wages, women of color struggle much more when it
comes to making fair wages in the workforce. There is a societal
standard or view of women that their worth stems from their beauty
rather than their qualifications. A lot of these standards can be tied
to the concept of the beauty myth and doing gender.

When I was 16 years old, I got my first job at a local Panera Bread. I
was quickly trained and became one of the most dependable employees they
had. I was the first one they always called to cover shifts, train
people, and handle mishaps at the cash register. All the while I was
working there, I was paid \$9 an hour. I was training boys my age who
were making more than I was. When I brought this up to management, they
denied that there was a gap in my pay with the boys I was training. I
knew that this was quite fishy so everything I did following that was
done contemplating what management\'s plans were. Management tended to
hire a lot of "pretty" people, but these people were not good at their
job. The people they hired tended to fit into the norm and beauty myth.
They just needed to be conventionally attractive to get the job it
seemed. After all of my hard work, some of the managers started to
realize, after a year, that I was a good employee to have around. They
started to promise me a promotion and raise, but that never did happen.
In my attempt to try and resolve the problems that existed at Panera, I
spoke with managers on multiple occasions about the promotion, promises
of a raise, and harassment from a male co-worker with nothing to be
changed. The constant feeling of having no power was solidified and
confirmed with all of the power that men had in the chain.

The power struggle can be explained by Naomi Wolf's "beauty myth." The
concept of the beauty myth is that women are judged purely on their
appearance and nothing more. In the "beauty myth," Wolf states,
"Feminism gave us laws against job discrimination based on gender;
immediately case law evolved in Britain and the United States that
institutionalized job discrimination based on women\'s appearances."
(Wolf 2). The appearance of women takes an abnormal precedent when it
comes to hiring decisions and the compensation between men and women.
There is an inherent bias when it comes to men and women in the
workplace. Women are at a disadvantage when it comes to pay equality.
The current pay gap is 82 cents to a dollar which tends to relate to the
beauty myth. A large portion of the gap comes from the basis of judging
women and placing their value on their looks. For example, a man and
woman who are hired at the same time with similar qualifications and
work history will commonly have a wage gap. This can often be attributed
to the "beauty myth" within the working communities.

The concept of "doing gender" also ties into the wage gap currently.
"Doing gender" is a concept that refers to conforming to a certain
gender type whether that be with clothes, mannerisms, or actions. Often
women in the workforce do not get the same opportunities that men do.
Women can certainly aim for jobs that are higher in the chain of working
but sometimes they are not awarded those jobs. Women can be guided or
coerced into job positions that are more "fit" for women. Some of those
jobs include receptionists and assistants as opposed to leaders within
their realm of work. The coercion for women in certain roles does not
fall just into the corporate world it is everywhere, it is in college
majors too. For example, gendered expectations say that women should
major in more feminine things like nursing or teaching which is the
opposite for men. The gender expectations for college majors can be an
immediate disadvantage to how much money in a career path women can
make. The "doing gender" concept highlights the wage gap and the
gendered expectations that loom over women especially.

To summarize, the gender wage gap is a complex issue that is influenced
by many factors, including discrimination, workplace segregation, and
differences in education and experience. However, the concepts of the
"beauty myth" and \"doing gender\" shed light on how gendered
expectations and norms can play a significant role in extending the wage
gaps existence. The "beauty myth" reinforces the idea that women must
meet certain physical standards to be considered valuable and
successful, which leads to discrimination in the workplace and limits
women\'s earning potential. Similarly, \"doing gender\" focuses on how
gendered expectations can influence the types of jobs that men and women
pursue and how they negotiate for pay, which can also contribute to the
wage gap. Overall, addressing the gender wage gap requires a
wide-focused approach that recognizes and challenges the ways in which
gendered expectations and norms can limit women\'s earning potential at
any age. By promoting gender equality in all areas of life, we can
create a more just and equal society where all individuals have the
opportunity to succeed and thrive.

In conclusion, women are not given a fair shot to make money compared to
men in the workplace. My own experience while working at Panera Bread is
an example of the unfair and unequal pay between men and women in the
workforce. Men have a leg up on fair wages because of certain fields
they dominate in career paths as well as negotiations for pay ranges.
While working at Panera I can now say that the "beauty myth" and "doing
gender" largely contributed to the people that worked there. The "beauty
myth" was utilized quite often as how people would be compensated. The
conventionally attractive employees were the ones who made more money
regardless of their skill set and ability to do their job well. As for
"doing gender" among the employees at Panera it was something that was
also commonly seen. Management would oftentimes try to get more of the
male employees to higher ranks or work in the kitchen as line cooks
whereas female employees would be recruited to work in the bakery or as
a cashier. These opportunities are not equal and give a clear view into
the inner workings of how the wage gap remains and is encouraged today.
The wage gap is still very much something that currently and
historically affects our pay which is an obstacle that must be overcome.
