*What challenges appear further down "The Matrix of Domination"?*

As we mature, we gradually learn about and assimilate to the social
norms and customs behind what makes each person different from one
another. As young children, we are completely innocent and oblivious; we
do not treat anyone we interact with differently based on how they look.
Then comes a point in time where we have to learn about the past before
us, while observing this sociological paradigm we've created known as
"the matrix of domination" in the present. The matrix of domination
refers to a model that breaks down the issues of oppression concerning
race, class, and gender (which can be divided further sections as
religion, sexuality, ability, and even language). The dominant figures
in this matrix would consist of straight, white, high class men that
speak English as their native language. Clearly, the world is too
diverse for said differences *not* to exist. Here, I would like to
discuss the fact that certain challenges concerning education *increase*
for an individual the further down the matrix society has placed them,
as well as how much a person's opportunity for success varies based on
the category they're placed in

Personally, I feel as if I have a decent comprehension of the matrix in
general, considering the fact that I fall into a lower place on the
hierarchy. I've paid close attention to how it affects me in and out of
school throughout my life, or at least until I was old enough to
conceptualize this topic. During high school, my parents would take the
time to explain to me the importance of taking higher level classes, and
why---besides going to a majority white

school---many of the advanced classes had little to no diversity
(referring to black students). I would always question why I felt out of
place in an AP class for example, and it took some time for me to
comprehend that situation as a whole. Some teachers I've had in the past
made me feel as if I wasn't capable of handling the workload, which made
it increasingly difficult to persuade me to go further. Once I had
finally decided to take higher level classes, again, I felt as if I
didn't belong there. This was an inevitable conundrum that I had to
accept and move past. People have said things to me such as, "you're the
whitest black person I've ever met," after I had expressed my desire to
challenge myself. While that phrase will stick with me forever, I now
understand where that mindset stems from. History states that the
further you are down this matrix, the less likely you are to receive a
full education, or an education at all. It always took a white, wealthy,
and ideally Christian man to inquire about an education for the doors to
open up. It took years of effort, yet eventually the Common School
Movement of the 19^th^ century began, which gave women the right to an
education. It took even longer for the same to apply for people of
color.

Learning about these concepts aided in the broadening of my perspective,
thus enabling me to recognize the value of encouraging black students to
excel in school.

Then the topic of social class comes to light. Statistically, those with
a better social class background are more likely to experience greater
educational achievement and opportunity. The schools I went to are
placed in an upper middle class area of town. We had greater access to
technology and resources such as iPads and personal laptops that other
schools---within the same district may I add---did not. In reality,
being further down the matrix in this situation doesn't help their case
at all. Fortunately times are changing, but this doesn't mean that
obstacles for people within these categories don't still exist. This
gives rise to educational inequality as it continues to socially exclude
specific communities.

We cannot forget the fact that different classes can intertwine with one
another, which increases the variability exponentially. This concept is
known as "intersectionality." It's important to note that in order to
understand the matrix (no matter where you fall), you must realize that
oppression stems from one's worth by privilege, and that even the
oppressed have some privilege over other classifications. If you're
missing one aspect of the most dominant group in America, you've already
lost privilege in one area of your life. For example, one could be a
heterosexual white male, *without* an education. This fact alone
decreases his chances of being financially stable or what we could
consider to be "well-off.\" The matrix of domination covers the
organization of power across society as a whole, while intersectionality
focuses the lens on each individual expression of identity. Both are
used in tandem to help us better understand the systems of oppression in
society. These groups in the matrix are also the product of constant
racialization, which is the process of assigning a "racial character" to
someone; marginalization.

For example, African American women are often stereotyped as uneducated,
loud, and improper. Through racialization, if a woman of African descent
immigrated to the United States, people will attribute these stereotypes
to her based on her appearance alone. In the recent past, this could
create limitations around job opportunities, higher education, and even
in social settings. In addition to being an African American woman, that
person could fit into other sections such as being homosexual, and/or
Muslim. I've had friends that fit into one or more of these categories,
and they tell me about their experiences. One person that I had met
during my first year of high school described all of the threats and
slurs directed towards her in particular,

simply because she was wearing a Hijab to school. This is unacceptable,
and in order to recognize it as such, you cannot be oblivious to the
level of privilege that you have.

Social dominance is rooted within society, which is the reason that this
matrix exists. The further away you are from the dominant group, the
more ignorant and arrogant people you will be faced with, the more
difficult life will be to navigate through, and the harder you have to
struggle to overcome these challenges. The further If you're a straight,
white, educated,

English-speaking, able, Christian man who falls into the upper middle to
high class category, you are at the top. As soon as one of these
variables is taken away, a facet of that person's privilege disappears
along with it. If they aren't straight, they may face the fact that
certain rights could be taken away (before 2023), if they aren\'t white,
racism becomes an issue. Those who cannot or struggle to speak English
will have certain limitations in this country specifically, which is why
we stress studying foreign languages in school. Those who follow Islam
may be subject to bigotry from those higher up the matrix. Disparities
even appear when two people aren't of the same social class, which only
keeps everyone in their place (leaving little room for flexibility).

All of this is stated to shed light on the fact that nothing good stems
from the matrix itself, and in order to remove it from our ways of
perceiving others, we need to recognize its existence.
