What a Woman Should Be

Why does an intelligent woman have to be an unattractive woman? Why does
an unintelligent woman have to be an attractive woman? Society has told
women that men prefer a pretty girl to a smart girl. We have become so
superficial as to judge someone on their appearance rather than their
qualities. Women spend thousands to look and feel beautiful from
cosmetics and plastic surgery. Now more than ever, our social media is
full of half-naked skinny women glowing with a fresh tan and smiling
with perfect white teeth. Do we ever ask ourselves; I wonder what her
story is or what her aspirations in life are? No, the women who see that
image will go to the gym or starve themselves, get a spray tan, and
whiten their teeth. The men will awe the beautiful woman and think about
how perfect she is. Over the years, women have faced yet another
oppressing technique masked in competition with one another to be
desirable; the beauty myth. Women have become so infatuated with how
they look the matter of education, genuine connection, and identity are
disregarded. Men have given themselves the power to mentally abuse women
and persuade them into believing if they sit still and look pretty, they
will be feminine and desired. Women with the intelligence and bravery to
stand up for their rights disrupt males\' institutional power, thus
being cast as undesired and masculine.

A bit of background for relevance; I am a tall, white, skinny, blonde
woman. I am also majoring in biomedical engineering, which includes
courses filled with mostly men and a few women. Growing up, my parents
prioritized my education and taught me about my image\'s importance. How
to carry yourself, which clothes to wear, how to interact with others,
and everything a young woman learns. However, they never taught me that
men would solely view me as a tall skinny unintelligent blonde. How that
young men assume I was in the wrong class because this was Calculus 3,
and what business would I have there? How older men would look at me and
say, \"You should smile more. It makes you look prettier.\" My life
consists of men telling me how I should look, and if I do look that way,
I should be content with life.

One instance that still resonates with me is an interaction with one of
my high school teachers. He asked, \"What do you want to be when you
grow up?\" The most mundane and run-of-the-mill question people even ask
it to kindergarteners. I responded with doctor or lawyer because I knew
I wanted to have an A-list career. His response was genuinely
demoralizing, saying I should lower my standards, maybe be a teacher or
a nurse, something that would suit me better. He didn\'t know I was
taking sophomore-level classes in 8th grade; he didn\'t know I had been
on the Honor Roll since kindergarten; and he didn\'t know I was on the
mathlete team. He only saw a pretty face that needed to mold into a
category that fits the standard.

As a young woman, I fully developed by age 15, which meant my parents
needed to warn me of how to dress and carry myself yet again. Always
dress to impress, but you must leave things up to the imagination. They
failed to mention if you show no skin, you\'re a prude, but if you show
too much skin, you\'re asking for it. So how do I, as a woman, find my
true identity amongst the roadblocks, devaluation of my knowledge, and
sexualization of my body?

Naomi Wolf wrote a piece exposing the beauty myth and evaluating its
effect on women. The beauty myth stems from the sexual liberation of
women during the industrial revolution after women abandoned the
feminine mystique of domesticity. At that point, the only feminine
ideology left was beauty, thus creating this intangible idea of
impossible standards for women to achieve. This standard, created by
men\'s institutionalized power, pulls women\'s focus away from political
issues such as equality and turns it towards beauty. Women now
constantly compare themselves to skinnier, younger, and more developed
women. Therefore, according to Wolf, eating disorders have grown
exponentially, and cosmetic surgery is the fastest-growing medical
specialty. Women will do whatever they can to be the most beautiful,
desired, and fit the beauty standard. Have you ever wondered why older
women get Botox and plastic surgery to look younger? When someone ages,
male or female, they grow wiser, meaning age indicates intelligence.
However, women must not be intelligent because they would threaten
men\'s power, making them unattractive to men.

Men further instill this myth by not dating a girl more intelligent than
them because if women were free from this hold, their power would
contest men\'s power considerably. In her paper, Wolf mentions a
caricature from 1960 of an \"Ugly Feminist\" which shows a masculine
woman smoking a cigar. Society is making women believe that if they
portray themselves as unintelligent, conceal their feelings, and don\'t
cause any disturbance in male dominance; they are considered beautiful
and feminine. On the other hand, if you are portraying intelligence and
awareness of the oppression of women, you threaten male dominance;
therefore, you are considered ugly and masculine. We must ask the
question, why do women allow this to happen to them? The answer is more
complex than just ignoring it because women are now permanently
psychologically affected by the beauty myth. The only way for women to
break free from the myth is to see the world through a different lens.
Something challenging to achieve when our economy relies on the income
from cosmetic companies resulting in the standardized beautiful woman
plastered on every magazine, television, and billboard.

If I were to look back on my personal experiences, I could understand
why people view an unattractive woman as intelligent and why people view
an attractive woman as unintelligent. Brilliant women stand to disrupt
the male institutions and challenge their dominance. In turn, men accuse
them of being ugly because men fear the power of a woman free from the
shackles of the beauty myth. If women gain complete confidence and trust
their knowledge, it will carry them much further than the makeup on
their faces and the Botox in their cheeks.

My fellow male classmates don\'t think I am capable because I am
intelligent and beautiful, which they are intimidated by. My high school
teacher attempted to discourage me because he was worried a witty woman
would achieve more remarkable accomplishments than him, thus hindering
his dominance. The problem is not the woman but the insecure men
attempting to oppress women to feel better about themselves. My identity
is not how many men like how I look but the intelligence and connections
I possess.

Sense of humor is another excellent example of the beauty myth. Men\'s
sense of humor, when determining if they find a woman funny or not, is
based on whether or not the woman laughs at his joke. On the other hand,
women would choose a good sense of humor if the male told a good joke.
In elementary school, the teacher would ask, \"Are there any strong boys
here that can help me carry this?\" Notice how the teacher never asked
if any strong girls could help because women should sit still and look
pretty. In our society, instances of the beauty myth range in all age
groups.

Women need to see that men don\'t say derogatory things to them because
they are true but because they are worried women will become as powerful
as them, if not more powerful. Women can be conventionally beautiful and
just as intelligent as someone who isn\'t conventionally beautiful. The
same goes for a woman who isn\'t considered a classic beauty and can be
just as unintelligent as a woman who is a classic beauty. Standardized
beauty is another way for men to approve or disapprove of a woman\'s
behavior and intelligence. Women are not less because they are women but
because female beauty is used as a political weapon to oppress them.
