\"Why Am I \'Actually\' Your Friend?: A Woman\'s Battle for Equality in
Male-Dominated Friendships\"

Why as women in a friend group of men we are technically in, still
somehow out unless there is a convenience to them? As women, we are only
seen objectively even if we are in close relations with men. Whether it
be in a relationship way, or even just a friendly way, we as women will
never and have never been seen as equal in a society ruled by men. We as
women continuously fight to be equal and to just be seen by men as
something worth more than using or looking at. That is why I would like
to discuss how women are othered by men, objectified, and put under a
beauty myth even in friendships with men. No matter what title you have
with a man, there is a consistent inequality and that is what I would
discuss.

In my personal experience, I am the only straight female in my friend
group, with there being only two other women. As you may be already
thinking, I definitely hear and am a part of what men my age feel and
say about women. I think when we think about inequality between women
and men, we don't discuss how crazy it is that it even exists between
friendships, not just professional and love lives, and day-to-day
strangers. These are people in my life who I count on and depend on, but
when it comes down to it I am not equal to them in the slightest. There
are a few examples to show this and what I have personally experienced. 

To start off, my guy friends basically treat me like their no strings
attached girlfriend. They are very flirty and make comments that as guys
in a friend group, you should not be making. They only do this with me
and don't do this with my other two friends who are lesbian. I believe
this is because of the standard of beauty they have in their heads.
Stereotypically, I have features that fall under the normal standards of
beauty women follow. However, my lesbian friends don't follow those
standards and are beautiful in a not your typical women\'s way. So, in
my friend group, the guys are definitely more friendly with me than they
are with my other friends just because of how I stereotypically look.
They flirt and everything like that, even though we are clearly just
friends, and do it just because they can't see me as just a human being
to them but someone they need to be sexual and flirty towards. 

This leads me to my second topic, they see me as nothing but an object
and when they do see me as more since we are just friends, it is almost
demeaning. This is probably the most frustrating thing out of all of the
things that they do, but anything that has to not do with my experience
when complimenting me is "actually". One of my guy friends when I make a
joke always has to burst out laughing, even if it isn't the funniest
thing he has heard, and says that I am "actually" really funny. The
first time he said it I didn't mind it, but over time it gets
frustrating to be seen as actually something. That\'s also not the only
thing said, I am also "actually" smart, interesting, or in general
anything that gives me any sense of value, but I can't help but feel
like that value is taken away with the word actually is then added to
it. Even when they see what is good about me, they are shocked by it and
add surprise to it just because I am a girl, they don't do this to any
of the guys in the group it is just me. So why is it a shock to them
that as a girl there is more worth to me than how I look? This is why it
is so incredibly frustrating to try and be equal when the closest thing
they can say to make me equal isn't even worth saying.

My last example is the fact that they reach out or hang out when it is
convenient for them. My guy friends are never the ones to arrange any
kind of hangout unless they are getting something out of it besides just
hanging out with me, or they need someone. I invite them places quite
frequently and so do the other girls in my friend group. Yet, the only
times that they really want to hangout out are asking us to hang out is
when there is a party where there are girls, or something along the
lines of it being convenient for them and them physically getting
something out of it. Secondly, when we do hangout and aren't up and
going somewhere, they expect me to listen to all of their issues with
other girls and give them advice, whether they listen or not they don't
say anything else about the discussion and they don't even bother to ask
me about my life or anything, they only care about whether something
involves them or not. If it does not involve them then they do not care
the slightest. This is why it feels like I am just separate from the
group and only a part of it when they get something out of it for their
own satisfaction.

It is important to look at the topics that go along with gender
equality, starting with Simone de Beauvoir\'s theory of othering.
Beauvoir describes othering as men seeing women as "the other".
Basically saying that men are the dominant group and then there are just
women, who are under a completely different, lower category compared to
a man. Men are subject and women are presented as an object to men and
nothing else. Making women the "other" in the eyes of men. An example of
othering for women would be in the workplace men listen to men before
they listen to women for advice or answers because they see them as the
other and would rather hear from a man from their own group. Women are
seen as that objects that it nothing for than their bodies so women
aren't listened to.

My second concept to discuss is Naomi Wolf's beauty myth. Wolf describes
the beauty myth as the absolute need to be a certain way as women and
the completely unrealistic and sometimes dangerous lengths women go to
try and be this stereotypical definition of beauty. Men only feed into
this myth along with social media as well as telling us what we should
and shouldn't look like. An example of this is seeing a model on
Instagram who is obviously in very good shape, who has perfect features,
long hair, and things of that nature, and we as women feel the need to
fit into that section of beauty in order to make a way in society. With
this not only does it make women insecure and put other women down, it
completely has altered the male mind as well as what women should look
like in society too.

My final concept is from Sigmund Freud and how men are towards women and
why. Sigmund Freud says that men are drawn to women who look and/or act
like their mothers. As men they want someone to take care of them and
nurture them and listen to them and then go off and do whatever else
they want to do. For a mother-child relationship that is okay because
that is what moms do for their children, however, it does not work as
well in a love relationship. For example, men like to boast about
themselves to women they are romantic with, and have them glorify and
praise them just like when a child does something they are proud of they
want their mom to look immediately and be proud of them. 

Using this topic of Sigmund Freud in my experience goes along with my
experience that my guy friends only talk to me when it is convenient for
them. They will talk to me when they want something and then they don't
talk to me any other time. Also, they come to me begging for advice or
when they need someone to talk to, but usually don't return that kind of
action back. As Sigmond Freud said, I am basically just a mother to them
who they can come to when they need something or when they need help and
that is about the limits of how they act towards me most of the time. 

Moving on to my second situation within my friend group, the beauty myth
plays into my friend group and how they treat me because of it. As I was
saying, there is a standard for women in society, and the constant
pressure put on women is created through this beauty myth. With this
beauty myth, men are 100% involved in it and those are the standards of
women they are shown meaning that is the standard of women they believe
is achievable even though a good majority of the time it is not. My
friends are friends with me specifically because of how I look and are a
lot friendlier to me only because I am a part of whatever they consider
the beauty to them. However, this beauty myth only objectifies women,
and like in my friend group I am only seen objectively and for nothing
else, so they treat me as if I am nothing more than a pretty face just
because of their view on all women.

Lastly, Simone de Beauvoir and her theory on othering. I am 100% seen as
other in my friend group than the men. They see me only as an object as
they are subjects and anything that I say or do that adds value to me
leaves them shocked because I am not a man and I am just the other to
them. They see me as just a ditsy girl who if I do something a normal
human being would do they see it as a shock because I am "actually"
something, as opposed to them, which it wouldn't be impressive if one of
them did it because of course as a man they can do everything. 

In conclusion, being in a friend group full of men doesn't make you feel
like you are fully in the friend group, just someone who is there and
worth nothing more than what they objectively see you as and what they
choose to think and see about you on the inside. In society, I think
many women have experienced this and have been made less than a group of
men just because that is how men genuinely view them yet in reality
women are capable and worth the same amount as any man is too. As women,
we just want to be seen and be given the equality of men because it has
always been this horrible challenge to even be considered as anything to
men unless they are objectifying you. Women and male friendships are
very much a part of that topic as well even though it isn't discussed as
much as we may discuss other relationships between men in women. So, the
point I am trying to make is there is a clear divide between men and
women and although in our society we try to find to change it, there
will always be some form of inequality between men and women just
because of how men are psychologically and how society projects women.
