Will I Ever Be That?

Why is it that female celebrities are typically skinny? Every time the
TV is turned on, people will find that most, if not all, female
characters are conventionally attractive. Television and media have a
large impact on modern society, which creates the false idea that all
women should be skinny in order to be conventionally attractive.
Throughout time, this idea has become rooted into numerous institutions,
and as a result it has created a significant impact in the lives of many
women. According to UNC Gillings School of Global Public Health, 75% of
women showed signs of having an eating disorder in 2008, which was the
most recent study. This proves that society's push of the beauty
standard onto women has created a detrimental impact. Women are viewed
as objects whose only worth is determined through their physical traits.
While society is becoming somewhat inclusive to a variety of body types,
the male gaze still hasn't shifted, which is ultimately the root of the
problem.

At the beginning of the 2023-2024 school year I met a girl who has since
become one of my closest friends in college, and for the purposes of
this essay I will call her Sally. Sally has been battling eating
disorders since she was in seventh grade because of a multitude of
things that have caused deeply rooted trauma within her. Because of
this, most would assume that Sally is plus-sized. However, Sally is what
I expect the average woman to look like. She isn't skinny with a small
waist, but she isn't overweight by any means. Sally is what most women
look like, realistically. Being that Sally comes from a rich Asian
family, her mom and dad think otherwise about her weight, which is a
recurring theme I have noticed when I have Asian friends.

Sally got her first menstrual cycle in the sixth grade, and her cycle
was regular for about a year until her menstrual cycle stopped
altogether. Soon after that, Sally's mom forced her to get on the pill
form of birth control, which is a pill that doctors haven't done much
research about the effects on, at the ripe age of twelve in an attempt
to get her menstrual cycle back on track. The pill ended up not working,
leaving Sally with the side effects of weight gain and vomiting. A few
years later, Sally stopped taking birth control because her doctor said
that she was overweight, even though Sally had started lifting weights
by this time and went through puberty in general. Not only did the
doctor constantly tell Sally that she is overweight, but even her
basketball coaches and her peers at her high school told her that. It
turns out Sally's mom had the same thing happen to her when she was
younger because she also suffered from an eating disorder, the only
difference being that Sally's mom wanted to lose weight while Sally
wanted to gain muscle. Lots of time has gone by since then where Sally
hasn't been able to eat carbs, eat desserts, skip the gym more than one
day per week, or skip weighing herself on the scale in her room every
day. Bringing up something as simple as getting ice cream from the
dining hall can lead to Sally going on a thirty minute ramble about her
eating disorder. My friends and I try to help by reminding her that her
mother isn't in control of her anymore and that eating one dessert won't
cause her to gain weight, but the truth is that it would take years to
rid Sally of her eating disorder because of how long society has
incorporated it into her life. Sally is just one person that has to deal
with the effects of the beauty myth and how it creates an unrealistic
standard for all women.

Since the patriarchy began around 10,000-20,000 years ago, men have
always found a way to take control over women to make themselves the
dominant gender. However, with the American Industrial Revolution came
the idea of feminism: a political movement or idea about the experience
of being a woman in a patriarchal system. Feminism didn't hit all at
once, being that it was only the first wave that hit during the American
Industrial Revolution around the mid-19th century. The main priority of
first-wave feminism was to help women gain equal political rights, while
second-wave feminism gave women equal workplace rights about a century
later. After all of these feminist movements, most would think that
women are now equal to men. Why is it that men still have so much power
over women?

*The Beauty Myth* by Naomi Wolf goes into detail about why the idea of
being beautiful became so important after second-wave feminism. In the
eyes of men, women were becoming "uncontrollable," meaning that men had
to find a way to contain women by forcing them into a standard that is
only achievable by luck. Women had already obtained the materialism of
political rights and workplace rights, yet men aimed to reverse feminism
in a psychological way. Beauty is the one thing left that can put
restraints on the power of women, and the patriarchy uses that as a
political weapon. The more women gained, the more men pushed the idea of
beauty onto women. Once the factor of technology came into play, it was
all over for women with the rise of pornography and easy-access social
media apps. The patriarchy uses these tools to create the illusion that
women need to be skinny with large private areas in order to be sexually
appealing, which then translates into successfulness. On the opposite
end of this, women are shamed for not looking like a pornstar or a
popular social media influencer who have most likely had a lot of
plastic surgery done to be able to look a certain way. For example, the
upper half of my body is very slim, and because of this I have been made
fun of my whole life for something I cannot control. I also choose not
to wear makeup, and I've certainly felt the repercussions for such a
small decision. I've been called "flat-chested" and "not girly enough"
for as long as I can remember, and while it doesn't really bother me, it
hurts to know that other girls who may be more sensitive have gone
through the same thing as me. The idea of the beauty myth doesn't stop
there, though. Naomi Wolf believes that the beauty myth is also
determined based upon behavior. She came to the realization that
beautiful qualities are only symbols of behavior that a certain time
period deems desirable. Wolf used the example that "aging in women is
unbeautiful since women grow more powerful with time" (Wolf 3),
insinuating more so that a woman's power is the reason behind the
disgust and it's not all about her appearance. Through this idea, men
now have control over a woman's appearance and behavior.

In the few months that I have known Sally I feel as if I know more about
her eating disorder than who she is as a person because of how prevalent
her eating disorder is in her life. However, after learning about what
kinds of people are in her life, it is safe to say that the beauty myth
has consumed her life. If immigrant families wanted their children to be
one thing, it would be being successful. That means they are constantly
expecting more out of their children, and Sally just so happens to be
one of these children. As mentioned earlier, successfulness for women is
defined by being skinny while also having large private areas, which is
almost unachievable unless a woman were to win the gene lottery. Sally's
parents push the topic of weight on her way more than most parents
should because they think that weight equals success for their daughter.
This is just one side of what causes Sally to have an eating disorder
and body dysmorphia. Sally's doctor works for an institution created by
men that can be ignorant when it comes to a female's body. Her doctor
didn't take into account that Sally had just gone through puberty, which
naturally causes everyone to gain weight, and had started gaining muscle
at the gym before he called her "overweight." Institutions created by
men are what drive the beauty myth because without them, there wouldn't
be anyone to set a standard for what women need to become. The last side
that attacks Sally's self image is her peers. According to Pew Research
Center, 72% of Americans use social media, giving millions of people
access to pornographic or sexually explicit content. The popularity of
female pornstars and female influencers essentially sends a mass message
telling the public that this is what women should look like. Sally's
peers then go on to have this preconceived notion of what girls are
supposed to look like, and because they don't know any better, they make
fun of Sally for not having a Barbie doll figure. Blame cannot be placed
on any one person in Sally's life for who caused her to develop an
eating disorder because various patriarchal systems have rooted the idea
of the beauty myth into everyone's minds.

Beauty is the currency for women. The patriarchy created the "beauty
myth," which is an idea that makes people believe that a woman can have
everything in life if she is beautiful enough, while unbeautiful women
are the outcasts. According to the beauty myth, my friend Sally is
determined to be "unbeautiful," and she unintentionally tries to gain
beauty by having an eating disorder. How can society prevent women like
Sally from developing unhealthy habits in order to fit the beauty
standard? The number one way to prevent this is by incorporating variety
in the media. Movies don't always have to cast a skinny girl to play the
lead role, or TikTok influencers don't always have to have a Barbie doll
figure. This is the most effective way to spread body positivity because
of the mass amounts of digital consumers. Another way to reduce
unhealthy beauty standards is by eliminating pornography, because by
doing so this will diversify the male gaze. Society is already starting
to become more inclusive to women whose body types don't match the
beauty myth, but there is still a long way to go.

Works Cited

> -Wolf, Naomi. *The Beauty Myth*. Vintage Books, 1990.
>
> -"Survey Finds Disordered Eating Behaviors among Three out of Four
> American Women (Fall, 2008)." *UNC Gillings School of Global Public
> Health*, 11 Feb. 2015,
> sph.unc.edu/cphm/carolina-public-health-magazine-accelerate-fall-2008/survey-finds-disordered-eating-behaviors-among-three-out-of-four-american-women-fall-2008/.
>
> -Paige Gibbons Backus "Changes in Medicine during the 19th Century."
> *American Battlefield Trust*, 5 Oct. 2023,
> www.battlefields.org/learn/articles/changes-medicine-during-19th-century.
>
> -"Social Media Fact Sheet." *Pew Research Center: Internet, Science &
> Tech*, Pew Research Center, 7 Apr. 2021,
> www.pewresearch.org/internet/fact-sheet/social-media/.
