> Women In Society

Men and women often seem as though their privileges correspond, however,
this is far from the truth. Society often adds pressure and holds
standards on women that are not as frequently seen with men. Society
holds constraints over women's appearances and physical attributes that
depict the level to which the woman is accepted within society. Women
who uphold more standard beauty types are often valued more within
society. Physical appearance is a premier measure of a woman's worth.
Varying attributes, such as intellect, working skills, and leadership
abilities frequently go unnoticed when the physical attributes do not
align with societal standards. Women have limited opportunities in
society solely based on their appearance, which further prohibits the
ability to ﬁnd a well-paying job that aligns with what they may want to
do. In society, women face the issue of value, depending on physical
attributes.

Nearing nineteen years on earth, rarely a day goes by where I do not
feel as if my appearance decodes the respect and value those in society
give me. Throughout my many job interviews, I wore business attire,
make-up done, and hair done. I've gained much more respect and callbacks
than interviews I did not uphold the typical standards. Women are held
to the standard, that when attending a job interview, they must look the
part. Often no matter the job, salesperson, attendee at a sports shop,
or waitress, while, at an interview, you must wear business attire.
Otherwise, you may be viewed as a "slob" or one who does not care to
present themselves.

As a 5'2, short-legged, female, a Job such as modeling is nearly
impossible for me. Throughout history, modeling has upheld unrealistic
beauty standards. Often, this promotes unhealthy and extremely speciﬁc
beauty standards. One of my best friends is a model, and she tells me
stories about those who don't conform to the idealistic appearance and
do not have luck

with jobs such as modeling. From my best friend\'s experience, success
in the modeling industry is solely based on your appearance. Her pay is
based on how well she conforms to the standard beauty attributes society
creates. If you begin to fall outside of the guidelines of physical
appearances, you may get ﬁred completely. I have always been interested
in modeling, but unfortunately, I do not uphold the societal standard of
a model. I tried to get into it when I was young and got zero callbacks,
whereas my tall friends did. Not being accepted, getting ﬁred, or being
degraded because you are not deemed "pretty" enough for your job,
severely impacts my friend\'s self-esteem and therefore, belittles her,
and makes her feel as if she is not worthy. Unless she is consciously,
restricting her diet, working out, and hyper-aware of her body, she will
be jobless and have to suﬀer not getting paid and getting dropped from
her agency altogether. As someone who is not tall, and lanky, with
blonde hair, pale skin, and blue eyes, I feel as though I am
discriminated against in this aspect. My friend, over the years, has
lost her ability to care for her overall well-being and health over her
physical attributes. Her main goal is to keep her job, do well, make
money, and be accepted in society. To do so, she has to conform to
society\'s standards. I also encounter the beauty myth in society as I
am surrounded by restaurants such as Hooters. The premise of the job,
much like modeling is to get paid based on your physical appearance. The
"better" your body is, the more likely you are to get hired and tipped
well.

People go to the restaurant to look at your body. Who you are and what
you\'re capable of does not matter. People simply want to go to the
restaurants to look at women\'s bodies. The better the women look, the
more respect you get. Many of my guy friends have gone to Hooters, when
I hear them talk about their experience, they talk about their
appearance and who was "best looking".

When I was little, I used to partake in beauty pageants. To be in the
pageant you have to pay money. I would pay the organization money to
walk across a stage and show oﬀ my appearance. The beauty myth was a big
idea in this. The better you look, how well you conform to society\'s
beauty standards, the prettier you are, the better your hair, the more
makeup you have, the better your dress, and the higher your score is
from the judges. As I walked across the stage as a little girl and got a
high score from the judges, my self-esteem would instantly rise and I
felt great about myself. All based on someone\'s opinion of how good I
look. If I got a lower score, I felt defeated, worthless, ugly, and not
worthy of being in any more pageants. My value and respect was based on
how I looked.

Women seeking respect in society based on physical attributes surround
us, in job interviews, modeling, restaurants, and beauty pageants. Naomi
Wolf's idea of the Beauty Myth is a leading cause of women feeling
social pressures from society to conform to a standard beauty type.

Naomi Wolf depicts ideas regarding the Beauty Myth. Wolf investigated
the reason why women are viewed and valued diﬀerently based on their
appearance. The beauty myth explains the role society plays in women
feeling the need to conform to certain beauty standards.

Furthermore, the idea of physical attributes deciphering the respect
women are granted. The beauty myth says that the quality of "beauty"
objectively and universally exists. This is held as women choose, and
desire to embody it. Men do not face this, this myth is forever changing
evolutionary, and dependent upon gender. The standard male desires, a
good, looking female therefore the female can have more children and
this relates to sexual selection. While men often achieve things
themselves, women have to ﬁght for their resources and power within
society. The beauty myth forms, a hierarchy that keeps society in line
with stereotypical standards. An older

woman is not beautiful, whereas a young woman is. Older women, fear,
those of the youth, and those of the youth fear older women.

A woman is deemed worthy when their physical attributes align with the
standard beauty type. Women not only are accepted when ﬁt the beauty
standard but the beauty myth also suggests women will change to ﬁt these
standards. Women may cut their hair, wear more makeup, or get plastic
surgery to better suit these qualities. Women who do not show these
attributes may be at a disadvantage for other jobs out of the gate. They
may not have as many opportunities because they are initially turned
down because of their appearance, and their skills often go unnoticed.
The beauty myth emphasized throughout the past decade. Women have gained
power, but not without the ﬁght against eating disorders and economic
downfall from cosmetic surgeries. Women are said to be wealthier, more
powerful, and better respected, however, mental health has degraded
signiﬁcantly.

As a young white female in America, to a certain degree, I do conform to
these societal standards of the Beauty Myth. People in stores when I am
shopping, men, even in my own family, and at jobs oftentimes assume I
need help with a task that is as simple but they believe is too
complicated for a female like me to complete. If I were to physically
appear stronger, taller, and more masculine, they likely would not
assume I was incapable. I am often judged based on my appearance and not
by my skills. My physical attributes do not hinder my ability to be
independent.

Women are victims of the Beauty Myth every day all around us, many
times, it is overlooked. The beauty Myth through this lens helps us
observe how frequent and consistent this is in society. I have become
more aware of noticing it within myself and those around me. I not only
see this within myself but with other women in places such as a sports
shop like Dicks

Sporting Goods. Frequently, women in a store like that who conform to
societal standards of beauty will get asked if they need help or to "let
them know when they need help". Essentially assuming at some point, they
will need help. The beauty myth is forever evolving in our world today,
it is our job as a society to stop the standards from deciphering
women's values.
