0172

Women In the Workplace

Will Men ever see Women as their Equals? Women have been making
significant strides to balance workplace inequalities, as we will always
deal with the fact that Men will always be paid more. The top female
dominated professions are relating to childcare or aiding a medical
professional. The fact that many top female-dominated professions are
related to childcare or medical aid is certainly interesting, and it
speaks to the societal expectations placed on women to be caregivers.
Men will continue to see Women as the "other sex" as they consider
themselves to be alpha in the workplace and will promote the ideology of
the "beauty myth" how women should act, dress, work, take care of the
children, etc.

In the workplace, women are frequently under pressure to conform to
specific beauty norms, such as being slender, having flawless skin, and
donning cosmetics. This can pose a major obstacle since they may believe
that meeting these criteria is essential to earning respect or climbing
the career ladder. Furthermore, promoting the idea of the \"beauty
myth\" can result in women being objectified and seen as desirable
objects, rather than multifaceted individuals with distinct viewpoints
and innovative concepts.

I have worked many small part-time jobs, ice cream scooper, server,
babysitter, volleyball coach, feed shop warehouse worker, farm hand, and
most recently a metal worker for a golf company. I never really thought
much about my past work experiences and specific interactions I had, but
after reading the beauty myth and the article about othering I quickly
reflected and understood what was happening and how it was playing into
my life. I was sixteen at the time and had applied for a part time job
at a local feed store as a warehouse hand. I was raised on Black Angus
Family Farm, so I am used to labor intensive jobs, and throwing feed
bags and hay bales. Upon turning my application into the owner of the
feed store who was a middle-aged man, he quickly questioned me and asked
me if I meant to apply for the warehouse position. I told him yes, that
I was a farm hand, and I would prefer that to be opposed to being behind
a counter all day. He in turn asked me if I could lift a feed bag; I
demonstrated by lifting a 75-pound bag of grass seed. The owner simply
just smiled at me and said I would look better behind the counter and
unless I worked the counter, he would not offer me a job because the
warehouse is for men, and it would not be right to have a "little girl"
back there.

I faced a similar challenge when I worked in the metals department of a
golf company where I was the only female among male colleagues. During
my interview, they asked if I was okay with getting my hands dirty and
emphasized that the job required physical labor. Despite this, I was
hired. Working there opened my eyes to how men think and talk about
women, sometimes as objects or in ways I never imagined. For instance,
while washing a metal pan, a colleague told me to stay in the kitchen
because that is where I belonged, and to come in only when the real work
was done, so I could clean up the mess, and that I look too good to be
doing dirty work. Recently, we had a project with 650 metal ball
markers, I completed three in the time it took my male colleagues to
finish one. They make jokes about needing to give me directions on where
to drop off shipments, even asking if they needed to draw me a map,
because they know women are dictionally challenged. I am even reminded
of how to do basic tasks I perform every day by my supervisor. Despite
their belittling comments, I know my worth and am confident in my
abilities.

The feed store experience highlights the issue of othering and gender
discrimination in the workplace. My gender was the store owners only
grab. He made assumptions about my abilities and suitability for the
job. The owner actively stereotyped me and made assumptions about
women\'s competence and value in the workplace. After reading Naomi
Wolfs "The beauty Myth" which says that women are constantly pressured
to conform to narrow and unrealistic standards of beauty, it made me
reflect on these experiences, which can have negative effects on our
self-esteem, health, and overall well-being. This myth is perpetuated by
various industries, including fashion, beauty, and media, and serves to
reinforce gender inequality by objectifying women and limiting their
opportunities in society.

The concepts that I connected to these puzzles are othering and the
beauty myth. Othering is the social concept of viewing or treating
people or groups are different or less valuable than oneself or one\'s
own group. Othering This can lead to people diminishing or belittling
other groups and people, simply just because they are different.
Othering can happen due to differences of race, gender, sexuality,
nationality, religion, and many other characteristics. Othering
contributes to social inequities and is a form of discrimination. The
beauty myth is the idea that women are frequently under pressure to
conform to specific beauty norms, such as being slender, having flawless
skin, and donning cosmetics, just to achieve proper status in society.
These concepts relate to my work experiences because the experiences
described in both examples relate to the beauty myth and othering
because they prove how society has constructed certain gender roles and
expectations that limit women\'s opportunities and potential.

In my first puzzle the feed store owner assumed that I could not handle
the physical demands of the job simply because of my gender, and even
denied me of the job because I am woman. I am other, despite my
experience. He told me that I "would look better behind the counter."
This is an example of the beauty myth limiting opportunities for women
such as myself and othering me as weaker or less capable than men in
physical labor.

In my second puzzle, my male colleagues at the golf company treated me
the only female employee differently, making sexist comments and
belittling my abilities, even when I proved that I was capable and
efficient in my work. This is another example of othering and the beauty
myth, as the men in this case saw the me as an outsider, an object to be
looked at or a lower-class worker, rather than an equal colleague with
skills and abilities.

The problem with othering and the beauty myth is that it is deeply
ingrained in our society and in the way we view others. These concepts
also play a role in how we view and value each other in the workplace.
Even though women have come a long way in society in terms of equal
opportunity and rights, we are still not valued or view the same way men
are when it comes to the workplace. Society has beliefs and stereotypes
that women are not capable of doing labor intensive jobs.

The beauty myth reinforces the idea that the value of a women lies in
their physical appearance, regardless of their skill, intelligence, or
abilities. The myth also holds the idea that women should be "seen and
not heard." The myth is reflected by social media, advertising, pop
culture, because all of these portray women as objects for men\'s
desire, rather than personal individuals, with interests, skills,
intelligence, and personalities.

As you can see from my personal experience women that choose to pursue a
career in male dominated fields, will often be subjected to
discrimination, harassment, and stereotyping. In my experience I was
denied a job opportunity because I was the "other" sex, so women might
be subjected to loss job opportunities, promotions, and we also may be
paid less than our male colleagues.

The issues of othering and the beauty myth are interconnected, and both
contribute to the discrimination and belittling of women in society but
especially in the workplace. I hope as a woman one day we will challenge
these beliefs and stereotypes to create a more equal workplace for
ourselves. I also hope that women who work in male dominated fields know
that they are there because of their skills, not their beauty. Worth
does not derive from beauty. One day we should have a society where
people are valued and respected for themselves regardless of gender or
appearance.
