6957

Working the System

Did you actually earn your job? Throughout our lives, we always wonder
who we lost out on when we did not get the job we applied for.
Oftentimes this is due to factors entirely out of our control. Many of
the jobs we apply to are given to individuals who already have their
foot in the door through connections with people already working within
the company. This experience is seen with most jobs you will ever apply
to limiting but not excluding minimum wage jobs.

Oftentimes many job openings don't even become publicly posted, instead,
they are filled by personal or professional connections. In today's
society getting a job is not about being the most certified of the
applicants, rather it is a competition between who has the most links
within the company.

Back home I work at a pharmacy in Concord with my sister, Abigail, and I
can without a doubt say it is because of her that I got the job. Before
I worked there it was well known that family was not allowed to be
hired, but because of my sister\'s good relationship with our boss, he
allowed me to apply. Granted this application came with the guarantee
that I would get the job, and when I went in for my "interview" I was
simply told what I needed to bring for them to get me into the system
and on the payroll. Not only was I essentially handed the job, but I
also started out making more than some of my coworkers. I have
experienced this with nearly every job I have ever applied for. My first
job working at American Eagle was a job I attained through a referral
from a friend who worked there. His influence within the company allowed
me to get an interview quicker and gave me an edge compared to other
applicants. Furthermore, my second job, at a restaurant near my house,
was not hiring at the time, but my friend talked to the manager

to get me an interview. This interview lasted around five minutes and
upon sitting down he told me I got the job.

I did not necessarily earn any of these jobs, instead, I was able to use
the connections I have with my siblings and friends to work my way into
the company and this is seen time and time again with nearly any job you
apply to. I have not only experienced this but I have witnessed it. For
example, my mother has an associate\'s degree in nursing, which
typically a bachelor\'s degree or higher is preferred when applying to
jobs within this field, but because of the networking she has done
throughout her career she has easily gotten any job she has applied for.
She has also been selected for a promotion before coworkers who have
been with the company longer. This reveals that it is not the
qualifications or the interview that get you the job, instead, it is the
connections you have that give you a front running.

Gregory Mantsios explains that America is not a classless society and
that individuals are not impoverished because of their lack of effort,
but because people are confined by the opportunities afforded by their
social and economic system. This social and economic system is
controlled through institutions that reproduce this hierarchical class
structure making it extremely hard for people to outgrow the class they
are born into because they are given the same limitations as their
parents. The first connection that allows us to gain experience with
networking that will allow us to get high-paying jobs within society is
our parents. The schools we are able to go to and the education we are
able to receive are all confined to the class we are born into.
Higher-class families can afford tutors and private institutions that
allow their kids a front running at getting into low-accepting colleges.
Lower-class families do not have these same advantages. Some other
factors that contribute to explaining why some have more than others
include generational wealth, community, and discrimination. The
community consists of who

you grow up being surrounded by if you grow up in a nicer area you will
have more opportunities to get jobs through high-class individuals
living around you.

Even at a young age, we are being subjected to a system that allows for
little growth. The rich will continue getting richer, not because they
are more qualified, but because of the connections to leaders of these
institutions that give them the ability to get higher-paying jobs with
little work. Class plays a major part in the jobs individuals will be
able to attain.

Higher-class individuals have more relationships with people controlling
these institutions or with people who have influence within these
corporations, in turn, making getting a job much easier.

The power elite as discussed by Domhoff puts into perspective why this
class system will continue to be perpetuated. The power elite are the
leaders of the institutions that hold a massive amount of influence in
the way society is run. Members within the power elite thrive off
neoliberalism which gives them the environment needed to keep getting
richer while keeping the poor impoverished. Many levels are also seen
between poor and rich such as the middle class and these people are also
subjected to the power elite. The power elite plays into the class
system seen within the U.S. as it explains why the working class has
such little power to change this unequal distribution of opportunity.

This hierarchical class system is seen throughout my experiences along
with in my observations as I and my mother both have gotten jobs as a
result of our class within society. I would consider my family middle
class and because of this, we are granted more opportunities than
lower-class individuals but less than upper-class individuals. These
opportunities have allowed us the environment we need to network and
create connections that have permitted us to achieve higher positions
without better qualifications. My family, however, is still limited to

typically only being able to achieve middle-class positions easily as it
allows for the reproduction of this class system that is perpetuated by
the power elite.

Class does exist within America and it contributes heavily to what
individuals will be able to achieve in their lifetime. People are not
rich and people are not poor because of putting in more or less work.
People are held down by the policies within America that grant these
institutions the privileges they need to keep extending their wealth.
People are also limited through their connections that either help or
lessen their chances of getting jobs depending on their status within
the hierarchy. It is nearly impossible to grow outside of the barriers
you are born into as a result of the class your family is placed into
and this is seen throughout my experiences in the workplace. There are
many explanations people can give to explain their wealth such as "I
earned it" but these all are meant to hide the material consequences of
wealth that result from inequality within the market. Overall, we cannot
deny that there is an unequal distribution of wealth within America as a
result of policies that favor the rich.
